mr. president, thank you. i would like to congratulate the commissioner and my rapporteur, mr langen, on an excellent report. strengthening the single market is at the heart of the european semester, the investment plan and the eu growth and jobs plan. there is still a lot of work to be done in building the single market from building the digital single market, e-government and the implementation of the new public procurement rules, through the energy union, building the single capital market and the banking union to the most important thing we are discussing today, the further development of competition policy as the foundation for the development of the single market. i thank the rapporteur for the important proposals which i believe should be adopted and included in the regulations. for example, in antitrust proceedings, the rules on fines should definitely be extended to the natural persons responsible. i fully agree that state support for banks should be conditional on their lending to smes. opening up sources of finance to entrepreneurs to modernise their businesses and innovate is a prerequisite without which we will not drive stronger growth in europe. the role of the european parliament in competition policy matters should also be completely changed. we're asking for an active role, co-decision and involvement in the investigative process.
mr president, competition policy is an important instrument for the functioning of the internal market of the european union. the excessive concentration of economic and financial power in the hands of a few must be prevented. new objectives are often not achieved in practice because of oligopolistic and monopolistic actions. the annual losses due to the existence of cartels amount to between eur 181 and 320 billion, which is approximately 3% of the gdp of the european union. we urgently need to upgrade the existing legal framework to implement this important policy. state aid is a particularly sensitive issue: it must not be used illegally, anticompetitively or protectionistally. but when it comes to state support for peripheral regions and islands, flexibility needs to be increased. i welcome the decision to include social assistance for the transport of residents from remote regions in the general block exemption regulation. the same principle applies in croatia, where a pilot project of a helicopter emergency medical service was recently stopped despite a high number of interventions; unfortunately, about 30% of the croatian population does not have equal access to emergency medical care.
mr president, we need more europe. at a time when many say we need less europe, it is clear and i am convinced that we need more europe to solve many of the problems in our european union. the subject we are discussing now - the protection of competition - and all that is happening with multinational companies trying to do this because of the disparity in policy, tax policy and other policies, because of the disparity in member states and the inability of the european commission to react at all times, is precisely what shows that we need more europe. especially when we're talking about the digital market, or as i mentioned by the way, the energy market. i think that says all that you said, commissioner, that we need more europe. it is in this context that i support this report, you and your efforts as commissioner to strengthen the single market.
mr president, this report unfortunately follows the latest trend and promotes repressive tax policies at union level and for that reason i cannot support it. however, i welcome some positive recommendations such as the one on the development of e-government or the one on unfair and illegal clauses and practices used by the banking sector in consumer contracts. this sinking in croatia caused great trauma to tens of thousands of citizens. there are serious indications, but also some judgments of croatian courts, that banks have unfairly led citizens to take out loans in swiss francs which later, due to large fluctuations in the exchange rate, brought more than 50 thousand croatian citizens to the very edge of poverty. it is about banks owned by european banks and that is why it is a european issue. if we want a homogeneous and stable common market, we must seriously address these immoral practices that exploit the political and legal instability of the young european democracies.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, fishing as an economic activity today more than ever depends on a balance between the social sustainability of the fleet and the conservation of fish stocks. the protection of our marine resources is crucial for the future of fisheries, but that future cannot be without fishermen who, despite the restrictions, must continue to see their economic interest in this activity. i think we have recognised the need for this balance in this report and that is why i am particularly honoured to have had the opportunity to work on it with rapporteur matt and other shadow rapporteurs. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the fisheries sector, in particular the impact of the measures on the conservation of bluefin tuna and tuna-like species.
mr president, bluefin tuna is an endangered species and despite the fact that we have positive examples of recovery, favourable data from recent years and that they are now trying to increase quotas, i would still like to call on the commission, on you, mr commissioner, to be cautious. however, the bluefin tuna is an endangered species and the way that it is being used today and in the future in the mediterranean and in the atlantic, in the way that the big monopolies exploit the tuna, i fear that this will lead us into a problematic situation. so i invite you to consider a joint study of all the stocks of key fish species in the mediterranean and the atlantic, rather than just talking about individual species, because that is the best approach to protect both bluefin tuna and other species.
the question is, how do you get a blue card? mr. lewer, i listened carefully to what you said and i can understand some of your presentation because i know what political spectrum you come from and how you think. i would like to ask you if you agree with me, as the commissioner has said, that in addition to these issues you have spoken about, education about our history, european history and everything that has happened in europe in the last century is very important for the generations to come to know how a divided europe, a europe at war, has brought great misfortune to all its peoples. do you agree with me that this should be part of the education of our young people?
question by raising the blue card i thank the chair and i thank mr zver for accepting the question. there is a discussion going on about the revision of the multiannual financial framework, so i would like to know if you think that a better implementation of intercultural dialogue can be achieved by stronger budgetary changes at european level and by more funding for the activities you have mentioned and which are also explained in the report?
madam president, migration has marked the history of mankind, and it has happened for a variety of reasons. whether it was occupation, flight from danger or economic migration, the large influx of new populations has always been a kind of trauma for the native population, the migrants themselves or both. today, we are still witnessing mass migration in europe, and we must acknowledge that it is a source of trauma, both for those who come in search of safety and a better life, and for the native population. i have no doubt that modern europe is more than tolerant of diversity. our hospitality is witnessed by the millions of migrants that member states have welcomed in recent decades and given them the chance to live a better life. but such an opportunity must not come unconditionally, and one of the main prerequisites must be full integration acceptance of democracy, the rule of law and our christian values, of course, with the guarantee of preserving our own distinctiveness. those who are not ready for this should not be welcome!
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and the rapporteur on their excellent report. i welcome the efforts made to define the measures for the establishment of a capital markets union. i expect that these measures, and in particular the development of the securitisation market and the revision of the prospectus directive, will fulfil the objective of facilitating access to market capital for smes. it is important that our efforts to develop financial markets at european level contribute to further convergence so that countries and their entrepreneurs with underdeveloped capital markets can take full advantage of enhanced european financial markets. of course, we must not forget that at the same time, member states must do their job, which is to implement structural reforms aimed at improving the business climate, and the banking system must give stronger support to smes through a wider choice of financing models.
mr. president, the target is well-placed. we want a capital markets union. well, the sub-targets are well-placed. we want good access to credit for consumers, we want more investment, we want to make it easier for smes to access financial services from all financial institutions in the european union. so the objectives and many other sub-objectives, not just the ones i've mentioned, are well-defined. but we have to learn from our mistakes, we have to learn from what caused the financial crisis and especially we have to learn from what the banks did to the citizens in terms of classic financial fraud. read: what banks have done to citizens who took out loans in swiss francs in many countries of the european union. this is a classic scam, so please take that into account and worry about it in the future.
mr. president, we need to foster entrepreneurship and the entrepreneurial mindset both in homeschooling and through the education system, among all ages and both genders. only in this way can the european economy expect future growth and remain at the top of the world. entrepreneurship is somewhat less common among women than among men, and there is a huge potential here. however, i cannot support recommendations calling for inter-institutional dialogue to determine the best way to implement work-life balance policies and the equitable distribution of family responsibilities. it's not the job of institutions or politicians. the family is the most intimate sphere of human life, where decisions must be made by a man and a woman in consultation with their children, not by politicians. the limits of political interference in the lives of citizens must be known, and they have been crossed in this report.
written. a lot of activities have been undertaken to boost female entrepreneurship, reduce unemployment and self-employment, but they have not proved effective and we cannot be satisfied with the achievements as female employment is still below 60%, far from the target of 75%. women account for only 34.4% of the total number of selfemployed in the eu and their income is still lower than that of men. we can't come up with new solutions with the same measures. it is not enough to provide one-off financial support and facilities, but long-term social support and support is needed so that women can build a career in entrepreneurship and reconcile private and professional life. ensuring quality childcare and education systems are key to this, and it is also important to make it easier for women to access financial resources and to realise business ideas. i supported the report by member of parliament barbara matera which seeks a new, holistic approach to promoting women's entrepreneurship. it is important to adopt urgently concrete measures and an appropriate legislative framework that will result in an increase in the market share of women as well as in the effective use of appropriate instruments and incentives, including eu funds, to enable quality care for children and other dependants, flexible working hours, full protection of social rights and measures to achieve a real balance and equality in reconciling family and work obligations.
mr. president, i want to highlight from this report the part that talks about the need for a partnership between the education system and the economy. it is an industry, and what i want to emphasize is certainly tourism, where young people, even with little qualifications, can find employment very easily or much more easily. of course, the issue of employment in smes is particularly attractive. however, what i wanted to take the floor for is precisely to highlight two possible elements. the first is youth self-employment. i think we need to do everything we can to encourage young people to be self-employed and to take some kind of responsibility in their lives. the second issue is microfinance, the possibility of financing young people and entrepreneurial projects for young people with small loans. i think these are two elements that can be incorporated into this report and contribute to youth employment.
written. youth unemployment remains one of the european union's biggest problems. youth entrepreneurship has progressed, but we still need to work to strengthen it and reduce administrative barriers. market trends are changing rapidly and educational policies need to follow suit, responding appropriately to changes and organising educational programmes in line with market needs and technological progress. youth entrepreneurship should above all be encouraged and supported by various support programmes, ranging from promotion of self-employment to financial support. young people are entering the labour market late and a great deal of effort is needed to reduce the unemployment rate. i have asked the commission on several occasions to help me to deal with this problem, because young people are the new force that the union needs and we must therefore do everything we can to make it easier, better and faster for young people to enter the labour market.
mr. president, the installation of the razor wire on the border line between croatia and slovenia has caused great resentment among the citizens of croatia and slovenia. the opposite of unreasonable politics is friendship and good neighborliness, the opposite of playing volleyball over that razor wire. the wire was laid where no one has ever crossed the border and where no immigrants can be expected: in istria and in kopa and in gorsky kotar. it is a provocation, it is an irresponsible policy against europe, against croatia and against slovenia. today, contrary to expectations, the same razor wire has become a great danger to the lives and safety of the inhabitants of the border areas of slovenia and croatia. that is why i ask the european commission to urgently ask the republic of slovenia to remove this dangerous razor wire, dangerous for the citizens of slovenia and croatia, and i ask the slovenian government to come to its senses and finally start moving this razor wire itself, because it directly threatens the safety of the citizens and nature of croatia and slovenia.
the issue of raising the blue card. thank you, mr president, thank you for accepting my question. estonia is indeed one of the leading countries in e-services at all levels. i am interested to know how it would help the less developed and less advanced member states, what mechanisms would be used to really converge and thus put into practice this important issue of establishing a digital single market and strengthening the single market as a whole?
mr president, the potential of the digital single market is enormous. trade development, new jobs, more efficient and modern administration are just some of the benefits we would witness. it will take a lot of support for innovation and investment in technology to achieve our goals, but i have no doubt about the end result, especially if politicians by then understand the importance of less market regulation for development and growth. but i would like to draw your attention to another dimension here, and that is crime, which is also rapidly becoming digital. the digitisation of drug and arms sales, the sale of counterfeit products via the internet and the use of new media for the dissemination and coordination of various criminal and terrorist organisations are already widespread. with the creation of the digital single market, the challenges in fighting crime will become even greater and accordingly our methods must evolve, but always with a dose of caution not to be afraid to restrict the civil liberties of those people who have not broken the law.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of czeslaw adam siekierska on the grounds that this is in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the fact that there is no reasonable doubt that the immunity is being waived with the aim of causing political damage, but that it is a case of a speeding offence committed in a populated area. moreover, mr siekierski allegedly admitted to driving the vehicle, and such a vote is also the position of the alde group.
written. ‒ i supported the request to waive the immunity of mp ašeriski on the grounds that parliamentary immunity should serve exclusively as an instrument of protection against political persecution. parliamentary immunity cannot be used for the purpose of placing oneself above the law. the attorney general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the chief inspectorate of road traffic for the waiver of immunity to ms siekierska, as the alleged infringement is specifically related to speeding in a populated area. the european parliament should decide whether to waive immunity or not, since the alleged breach is not directly or ostensibly related to the performance of the duties of mr czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation to waive the immunity of my colleague czesław adam siekierski because, although the criminal prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, the alleged offence clearly has no connection whatsoever with the performance of the duties of my colleague kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament. the commission has not provided any evidence that the member concerned has been subject to a criminal prosecution.
written. ‒ since the alleged offence is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of mr czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament and since there is no reason to assume, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the application was made with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis), i have supported the request for waiver of immunity.
written. ‒ the rule of law is essential for society as a whole to function in a safe and trustworthy manner. we should all be equal before the authorities and we should respect the law. i support the waiver of mr. ascher's immunity for speeding and violating the 50 mile per hour limit. he must prove his innocence before the authorities in case he is charged with breaking the law or suffer sanctions with dignity. as a representative, he can send a positive message to society, because he is part of a group whose behavior creates the morality of the community.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of czeslaw adam siekierska on the grounds that this is in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the fact that there is no reasonable doubt that the immunity is being waived with the aim of causing political damage, but that it is a case of a speeding offence committed in a populated area. moreover, mr siekierski allegedly admitted to driving the vehicle, and such a vote is also the position of the alde group.
written. ‒ i supported the request to waive the immunity of mp ašeriski on the grounds that parliamentary immunity should serve exclusively as an instrument of protection against political persecution. parliamentary immunity cannot be used for the purpose of placing oneself above the law. the attorney general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the chief inspectorate of road traffic for the waiver of immunity to ms siekierska, as the alleged infringement is specifically related to speeding in a populated area. the european parliament should decide whether to waive immunity or not, since under rule 9 (7) of the rules of procedure the committee on legal affairs cannot, under any circumstances, express an opinion on the guilt of a member.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation to waive the immunity of my colleague czesław adam siekierski because, although the criminal prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, the alleged offence clearly has no connection whatsoever with the performance of the duties of my colleague kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament. the commission has not provided any evidence that the member concerned has been subject to a criminal prosecution. this is about respecting the rules of the member state of which mr siekierski comes, as stipulated in article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
written. ‒ since the alleged offence is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of mr czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament and since there is no reason to assume, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the application was made with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis), i have supported the request for waiver of immunity.
written. ‒ i support the request to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr. ašerský, as all legal issues must be resolved before the authorities. mr. axelsky was driving at an unusual speed, which is what the polish authorities are charging him with. he admitted that he was in the place indicated in poland at the time indicated. the commission has not provided any evidence that the exporting producer concerned has not complied with the requirements of article 2 (7) (a) of the basic regulation. if he is innocent, his name will be cleared of doubt, if he is found to have broken the law, he should be given appropriate sanctions to send a message to society. we should all be equal before the authorities and respect the laws that are the same for all citizens.
written. ‒ i supported the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity of polish mep czesław adam siekierski, who was charged with two offences of exceeding the speed limit in a populated area last year. the general prosecutor of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the polish road traffic inspectorate general to waive the immunity of siekierska. in the light of the fact that the offence in question is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, i consider that there is no reason to assume, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion, that this procedure was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned. therefore, i consider it right to waive the defendant's immunity and to allow him a fair and impartial trial.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009 because i support the proposal of the european commission and the prompt implementation of international provisions in european legislation. i believe that it is necessary to ensure the recovery of tuna stocks, to set sustainable levels of catch, to limit fishing in certain areas and periods, and to establish clear rules for sport and recreational fishing. such as the conservation of biodiversity and marine ecosystems, which are severely threatened, so harmonized and strong rules certainly contribute to the effective protection of bluefin tuna.
written. ‒ the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, which is planned to be implemented by 2022 and was adopted in 2006, has so far produced positive results. all the activities undertaken to conserve bluefin tuna have resulted in a reduction in the risk of extinction of this species. by 2012, the bluefin tuna catch had been reduced by almost two thirds, which has had a positive impact on the recovery of the species and the balance of marine life. i supported the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean sea because of the fact that the activities undertaken so far have led to significant progress in the recovery process of the species. i consider that all the measures proposed relating to the recovery and monitoring of bluefin tuna are sound and feasible. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the marine environment and the marine ecosystems in the light of the scientific advice provided by the member states.
the proposal for a regulation on a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan ensures that the objective of the common fisheries policy, namely to regulate the use of living marine resources, is promoted, while ensuring that economic, social and environmental conditions are sustainable. it is necessary to emphasise that the union is part of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), which has the right to adopt decisions concerning the conservation and management of fisheries, making all decisions adopted binding. the purpose of this proposal is to implement into union legislation the measures adopted in the period 2012 to 2014 under the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean adopted by iccat. the plan contains the regulation of technical measures that would help achieve the ultimate objective, measures such as the regulation of transport and the use of a stereoscopic camera to monitor the amount of catches. this proposal also introduces provisions empowering the commission to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i believe that protecting bluefin tuna can have a positive impact on the marine world, on the sustainability of the catch and on the recovery of the species in order to ensure the long-term economic exploitation of that species, to protect the fisheries and the fishermen who depend on the catch of bluefin tuna.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) has the power to take decisions related to the conservation of fisheries. these acts are binding and form part of eu law. in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan with the aim of restoring the species through a reduction in the tac. the plan introduces a gradual reduction of the allowable catch and measures related to the area and the period of the catch. the catch limit before the plan was around 33000 tonnes, which was gradually reduced to 12900 tonnes in 2012. the measure had a positive impact on the stock of the species and reached 13 400 tonnes in 2013. sustainable fishing is one of the fundamental principles we must uphold, while ensuring an equitable distribution of available quotas.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european union is part of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and part of the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) which is responsible for the management of tuna as a species in the atlantic ocean and surrounding seas. the commission has also proposed to amend the tacs for bluefin tuna in the area of the north sea, in order to take account of the fact that the tacs for bluefin tuna are not yet available. the interest is to restore the tuna stock. i support this in the form of restricting catches at certain times, in certain places, to set the quantity of catches, but to limit catches used for recreational purposes. this rule should apply to all those involved in the tuna fishery. i support the iccat proposal to use traditional traps because this type of fishing has a negligible impact on the marine ecosystem.
‒ the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the commission has also adopted a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean sea for the period 2006 to 2022. the tuna is the most important species regulated by iccat. fishermen have made considerable efforts to bring their catches into line with the 2006 decisions. i support this proposal of the european parliament and of the council.
written. - i welcome the report by mr cofferati. it is very important to ensure a fair single market. i hope that we will soon be able to put the issue of equal product quality in the new and old member states on the european agenda. citizens complain to me every day about the differences and i think it is necessary to talk about this at eu level.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy because i believe that european competition policy has a key role to play in strengthening the market economy and competition within the european union. in this context, it is important to note that one of the main objectives of european competition law is to prevent distortions of competition and to ensure employment and growth in order to achieve a fully open economy based on free competition. however, efforts to prevent unfair tax competition between member states and to speed up the time taken by the commission to conduct investigations should be increased, as shortcomings in those segments significantly contribute to the detriment of the functioning of the union's internal market. i therefore support the role of the european commission and other competition authorities, but i also believe that some improvements and changes are necessary.
written. ‒ to ensure the completion of the single market, a whole series of steps are needed, from the completion of the digital single market, e-government and the implementation of the new public procurement rules, through the energy union, the completion of the single capital market and the banking union to the most important one, the further development of competition policy as the basis for the development of the single market. competition policy needs to be developed, administratively simplified and democratically strengthened. in antitrust proceedings, the rules on fines should definitely be extended to the natural persons responsible. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary of the measure is compatible with the internal market. opening up sources of finance for entrepreneurship to modernise business and innovation is a prerequisite without which we will not drive stronger growth in europe. i supported the annual report on eu competition policy by mr langen because of the importance of preventing abuse of power, which is a serious competition problem. i fully agree that state support for banks should be conditional on their lending to small and medium-sized enterprises.
written. ‒ i support this report because it speaks openly about the implementation of eu competition policy in 2014. it was a very challenging year, with elections for a new european parliament and the appointment of a new commission. president juncker presented the roadmap and the guidelines for the new commission. the commissioner for competition promised that competition policy would contribute to job creation, particularly in areas such as access to the digital labour market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against tax evasion. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the beneficiary. it helped stimulate innovation and ensured equal rights for all companies, whether small, medium or large. the revised state aid rules also allow for targeted support for specific areas, such as infrastructure investments to reduce the burden on the transmission system and in renewable energy sources. at the end of 2014, in november, the commission announced the creation of a €315 billion european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to boost investment in the european union. i hope that the 2015 report will also show positive and successful results, and it is up to all of us to make this year even better.
written. ‒ competition policy is an important instrument for the functioning of the eu's internal market, which should prevent excessive concentration of economic and financial power in the interests of a small number of individuals and aim to raise the standard of living of all eu citizens. the fact that annual cartel losses amount to between eur 181 and 320 billion, representing approximately 3% of the european union's gdp, is the best call for an urgent upgrade of the existing legal framework for the implementation of competition policy in the eu. the question of state aid is a particularly sensitive one. they must not be used illegally, anti-competitively or protectionist. however, when it comes to state aid to peripheral regions and islands, flexibility needs to be increased, as was rightly emphasised in amendments 44 to 48. i welcome the decision to include social assistance for transport of residents living in remote regions in the general block exemption regulation, which recognises the problem of connectivity. i hope the same principle will apply in croatia, where the helicopter emergency medical service pilot project has recently ceased operations. the verification of state aid should be based on the understanding that in strategic and vital sectors such as energy, transport and health, the state must be able to guarantee complete security, continuity of supply and provision of these services to all its citizens.
written. ‒ market competition is a feature of the european union's economic structure, which presents it as a powerful actor on the international stage. it is characterised by ensuring fair competition for a large number of companies by giving consumers a greater choice and better quality of products at lower prices. unfortunately, there are actors who don't follow these rules. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a company in difficulty, and that the aid is necessary to remedy the situation. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the union's financial markets, in particular on the financial markets, in order to assess the impact of the measures on the union's financial markets. i would point out the creation of a new taxation decision board (taxe) to provide insight into transparency in member states' taxation practices, just one year after the luxleaks affair, which indicates a shift. i strongly support the overall effort to combat unfair and non-transparent behaviour to the detriment of others and for these reasons i supported the parliament's resolution stressing the importance of affordable and sustainable energy and security of supply in the context of transparent trade agreements.
written. ‒ the eu's competition policy is the foundation of europe's social market economy and an important instrument for the union's effective internal market. the european union is founded as an open social market economy with free competition aimed at increasing the well-being of consumers and the standard of living of all eu citizens, and whereas the european union establishes an internal market organised in such a way as to lead to the sustainable development of europe based on balanced economic growth and price stability. an effective and credible competition policy must not only aim at lowering consumer prices, but must also address the strategic interests of the european economy, such as innovation, investment, competition and sustainability, the specific conditions of competition in which small, medium-sized and start-ups and micro-enterprises operate, and the promotion of labour standards and environmental protection. i believe it is crucial that the commission continues to promote stronger convergence and cooperation between national competition authorities in the eu, and i support the report.
written. ‒ the annual report on the european union's competitiveness policy contains all the relevant elements. progress is visible compared to previous periods, the situation has been analysed and progress in the process of creating a banking union is visible. the report highlights that more efforts are needed to achieve adequate competition in isolated and peripheral parts of the union. the commission notes that the digital economy is a key driver of the digital economy and that the digital economy is a key driver of the digital economy. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the digital economy on the competitiveness of the union industry. i support the annual report on eu competitiveness policy.
mr president, i supported this report because i believe that intercultural and interreligious dialogue is the key to understanding and respecting diversity and to achieving and maintaining peace. unfortunately, this dialogue has largely been lost in today's world, and we in europe too often forget the foundations and values on which our culture and our whole society are built. i am therefore particularly pleased that the report highlights the important role of the family in preserving cultural identity, traditions and values and that it particularly emphasises that learning about one's own culture begins in the family. the family is the backbone of our society, and we must do everything in our power to protect it, as well as the values we teach our children. if we succeed in preserving the family, we need not fear that our culture will be compromised, because we will raise children who love their own and respect others, and that is the first and most important step in building peace.
written. ‒ i support this report which focuses on the role of intercultural and interfaith dialogue with all stakeholders and the role of education at all levels in the light of all recent developments, all with the aim of promoting human rights, freedom of thought, mutual respect, integrity, ethical principles, cultural diversity, social inclusion and cohesion. i believe that this is the only way to create the conditions for future peace and successful conflict management.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's fundamental values, which refers to intercultural dialogue as a process consisting of open exchanges or respectful interaction between individuals, groups and organisations with different cultural backgrounds or worldviews. it is important to provide the necessary means, giving priority to the financing of programmes to foster intercultural and citizens' dialogue with a view to enhancing mutual respect. the report is important as europe and the world face a number of challenges related to globalisation, migration, religious and intercultural conflicts and the rise of radicalism. it encourages stakeholders to adopt and update a clear policy-oriented definition of intercultural dialogue and advocates the promotion of a values-based intercultural and interfaith approach in education, the promotion of mutual respect, integrity, the ethical principles of cultural diversity, social inclusion and cohesion. it calls for the inclusion of interfaith dialogue as part of intercultural dialogue, which is a prerequisite for peace and a key tool for conflict resolution and reducing radicalisation. the report stresses the importance of timely integration and education of segregated communities whose behaviour is contrary to fundamental european values.
written. ‒ intercultural dialogue has several objectives, but above all it promotes respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. education, both formal and informal, and the provision of financial resources shall support programmes to foster intercultural and citizens' dialogue in order to strengthen mutual respect and coexistence of different cultural identities and beliefs, to highlight the contribution of different cultures to european societies and heritage, and to effectively resolve conflicts. inclusive artistic, sports, educational and training activities for all ages, as well as volunteering, shall be supported in order to strengthen the process of socialisation and the participation of minorities, disadvantaged groups, marginalised groups, migrants and refugees in cultural and social life. europe and the world are facing a number of challenges related to migration, religious and intercultural conflicts and the rise of radicalism, and member states are responsible for creating and implementing measures aimed at preventing negative conflicts. i supported the report by mp julie ward because intercultural dialogue as such can make a significant contribution to improving democracy. it is to prevent ethnic, religious, linguistic and cultural divisions. intercultural dialogue is a means of inclusive democratic participation and citizen empowerment, especially when it comes to the common good and public spaces.
written. ‒ the european union approach should take into account and continue the excellent work launched in 2008, which marked the european year of intercultural dialogue, enhance the exchange of good practices and promote a new structured dialogue with all stakeholders on intercultural and interfaith issues. in the field of education, we need to promote a values-based intercultural and interfaith approach to promote mutual respect. interfaith dialogue should be considered as part of intercultural dialogue, which is a prerequisite for peace and a key tool for conflict resolution. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development, and will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development. in this context, the erasmus programme, which encourages the mobility of young people and teachers, and all forms of cooperation between schools and universities, can be of particular importance and value. this report covers all these priorities and i support it for that reason.
written. ‒ the european union is extremely consistent in upholding the fundamental principles of freedom, democracy, the protection of human rights, tolerance and equality. today, unfortunately, we are witnessing the scale of the potential for cross-cultural conflicts caused by religious intolerance and disrespect for other cultures and customs, and for these reasons urgent action is needed. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on youth, including on the implementation of the union's youth policy, and on the implementation of the union's youth policy. furthermore, each education starts in the family and, as the vehicle of society, contributes greatly to the preservation of cultural identity, value systems and intercultural dialogue. let us not forget the role of teachers, social workers, and religious organizations, who can certainly have a positive influence on the actions of young individuals by teaching them the true values of life. for the reasons i have mentioned, i supported the european parliament's resolution because i believe that in our times the issue of interreligious and intercultural relations has become extremely sensitive and the value of dialogue and mutual agreements is all the greater.
written. ‒ considering that europe is endowed with an infinite wealth of cultural, social and linguistic diversity, and that in this context the common values that bind our societies, such as freedom, social justice, equality and non-discrimination, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, tolerance and solidarity, are of crucial importance for the future of europe. cultural heritage represents the diversity of cultural expressions and must therefore be protected and promoted through the adoption of harmonised legislation and international agreements in close cooperation with unesco. intercultural dialogue is not regulated by national, european or international law because it is not a legal concept but is based on international frameworks aimed at protecting human rights and cultural diversity. intercultural dialogue can make a significant contribution to improving the state of democracy and to developing greater and deeper inclusiveness and a sense of belonging, and i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ europe is adorned by an endless wealth of cultural, social, linguistic and religious diversity. since intercultural dialogue is not regulated by national, european or international law as it is not a legal concept, it is based on international frameworks aimed at protecting human rights and cultural diversity. work should be done to develop a better understanding of different perspectives and practices, increase participation and freedom and decision-making capacity, promote equality and strengthen creative processes. the european union should take into account and continue the excellent work started in 2008. the parties shall cooperate in the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the protection of the environment, in particular by promoting the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the protection of the environment, and by promoting the development of a comprehensive policy on the protection of the environment. i support mrs ward's report because the existence of european values is the basis for coexistence and development, but i also stress the importance of respecting gender equality.
written. ‒ i support this report which calls on the commission to examine the impact of legislation on financial markets in recent years and to ensure that the eu continues to be protected from future crises, with efficiency in financing the real economy and smes
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the review of the state and challenges of financial services regulation in the eu: the way forward towards a more efficient and effective eu framework for financial regulation and towards a capital markets union and their impact by further encouraging the improvement of the overall process of financial services regulation. i believe that effective financial stability and consumer protection need to be established and that the legislation in force should be fully implemented and enforced by the member states. this strengthens the competitiveness of european legislation and the european financial sector, while at the same time assessing the impact of financial services, the quality of which, in the legislative process, is highly dependent on timing, coordination and transparency. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ the financial crisis called for necessary reforms to better regulate the banking system and to lay the foundations for stability and restoring confidence in institutions. the convergence of financial markets at eu level, in particular the creation of a capital markets union, which will open up new financing opportunities for the economy, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, is now a priority. the commission should also be able to adopt a proposal for a directive on the securitisation of financial instruments, which would allow the securitisation of financial instruments to be carried out by a third party. this report does not call for market deregulation but calls for exploring additional possibilities to further improve the financial system with the aim of stronger lending to those who contribute to economic growth, which is why i supported it.
written. ‒ better regulation of financial services in the eu is being prioritised in the creation of a capital markets union, which is particularly reflected in the financial crisis of 2007. financial sector supervision certainly needs to be strengthened because it protects the users of financial services, which is all of us. the transposition of financial regulation and reforms into national legislation needs to be accelerated as an efficient and effective framework for financial services, both at national and eu level, is a guarantee of financial stability and a prerequisite for increasing investment and stimulating growth in a competitive european economy. in this context, it is important to take care not to overdo the number and complexity of the rules, which could cause problems in the form of their different interpretation by individual member states or inconsistencies with the eu regulation. the commission considers that the measures in question are necessary to ensure that the union market is not distorted by the excessive distortions of competition and that the union market is not distorted by the excessive distortions of competition. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken to address the identified shortcomings. the report before us is a significant step towards more effective financial regulation and i will support it.
written. ‒ i support the report on the review of financial services regulation in the union and the drive for a more precise and systematic form of consideration of their effects on financial markets, but also on the real economy. the commission should also support the project of a capital markets union and, in this context, insist on the harmonisation of financial services regulations. this solution strikes a good balance between the three fundamental objectives of financial regulation supervision: consumer and investor protection, the creation of new credit channels for the real economy (in particular smes) and the identification of remaining barriers to trade in financial services. in this context, i particularly welcome the request for regular checks of proportionality, consistency and compliance with the aim of simplifying existing financial services regulation to make it simpler and more aligned with the needs of smes. in croatia, for example, there are major problems with the illiquidity of smes, capital constraints and often poor information levels of those who are embarking on entrepreneurial ventures. in this context, an important part of the text also refers to the recognition of the key role of finding alternative sources of financing for smes, in particular in the form of the use of venture capital. the commission notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the financial and debt crisis that erupted in 2007/2008 required extensive involvement of european legislators. since then, a number of legislative initiatives have been put in place in the financial services sector in the european union to restore financial stability, strengthen consumer protection, and implement lessons learned from the crisis. the commission's important new initiatives such as the investment package and the capital markets union will achieve a better result if they are based on efficient and effective regulation of financial services. more attention needs to be paid to smes and their financing. the application of the legislation relating to financial services should be less complex, more understandable and better adapted to the needs of smes. it is important that consumer protection, as well as financial stability, remain a priority for legislators. the global competitiveness of eu legislation and the european financial sector is highlighted as a major challenge in the regulation of financial services and interdependence with international standards should be taken into account. this process should be further enhanced and the specific role of esa and ssm in this area should be highlighted. the quality of financial services regulation depends on timeliness, coordination and transparency in the lawmaking process, and i have therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ i support this review because financial stability and consumer protection are imperatives that do not allow for compromise. after the experience that shook the eu and the world in 2008, the eu has adopted a whole series of laws regulating the financial market with the aim of never having a crisis of this scale again. the report states, and the econ committee supports this view, that the current legislation is good but that work needs to be done on its application in some member states. most of the legal provisions are already being successfully implemented and have had a positive impact. the report invites the commission to carry out an impact assessment of the legislation by the end of the current year and to propose any changes it considers necessary. the commission should primarily examine the impact on the economy, employment and the financial sector as a whole.
written. ‒ i support this report because i think that the rapporteur has struck a very good balance between the main needs of the financial services sector and the obligation for a higher degree of transparency. indeed, transparency does not necessarily have to be linked to a large amount of information, but rather to the quality and comprehensibility of information, thus enabling good decisions to be taken. the need to improve consumer information should also not lead to dubious administrative procedures and unreasonable costs, and it is our responsibility to adopt smart and less burdensome regulation to replace much of what is currently in place. i also support the initiative for more comprehensive and better financial education targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises with the aim of teaching them how to exploit capital markets. such companies are the backbone of the european economy and increasing their competitiveness is crucial.
mr president, less than a third of self-employed people in the european union are women, and statistics show that those who enter entrepreneurship are less risk-averse and less likely to expand their business due to poor environmental support. twice as many women as men work part-time. the most important resources that entrepreneurs need are easier access to finance and environmental support to reconcile their personal and business commitments as easily as possible. i am very proud that croatia is one of the few countries that has a national strategy and action plan for the development of women's entrepreneurship. this report calls for positive changes in the economy, but also in society. so i support him wholeheartedly.
mr president, the share of women entrepreneurs in the total economy of the republic of croatia is only 30%, which is insignificantly less than the european average, of which 23% are women business owners and 7% are women who have developed their own trades. this is a significant increase from 2001, when women entrepreneurs in croatia made up only 7% of all entrepreneurs, but women are capable of much more. the potential for women entrepreneurship is great, but so are the obstacles women face in trying to start their own business. therefore, i support the calls made in this report for the creation of concrete strategies to reduce red tape, facilitate the process of consolidating companies, provide access to capital and establish additional training programmes. i believe that it is necessary to devise concrete measures to enable women to reconcile their work and family responsibilities, which will encourage women to embark on an entrepreneurial adventure without having to fear that they will neglect their role as mothers or family responsibilities.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the external factors hindering women's entrepreneurship in europe because i believe that women's entrepreneurship holds untapped potential for growth and prosperity. by reducing the already persistent gap between women's and men's entrepreneurial activity and increasing the representation of women in management positions, the role of women as business leaders would be strengthened. such a role model would encourage younger girls to follow in the entrepreneurial footsteps. women have a huge entrepreneurial potential which lies in economic growth, job creation, women's empowerment, but also the source of their economic independence which provides them with the opportunity to further and easier integration into the labour market. this is why i believe that further strengthening of legislation in this area should be undertaken as soon as possible.
written. ‒ a lot of activities have been undertaken to boost female entrepreneurship, reduce unemployment and self-employment, but they have not proved effective and we cannot be satisfied with the achievements as female employment is still below 60%, far from the target of 75%. women account for only 34.4% of the total number of selfemployed in the eu and their income is still lower than that of men. we can't come up with new solutions with the same measures. it is not enough to provide one-off financial support and facilities, but long-term social support and support is needed so that women can build a career in entrepreneurship and reconcile private and professional life. ensuring quality childcare and education systems are key to this, and it is also important to make it easier for women to access financial resources and to realise business ideas. i supported the report by member of parliament barbara mater which calls for a new, holistic approach to promoting women's entrepreneurship. it is important to adopt urgently concrete measures and an appropriate legislative framework that will result in an increase in the market share of women as well as in the effective use of appropriate instruments and incentives, including eu funds, to enable quality care for children and other dependants, flexible working hours, full protection of social rights and measures to achieve a real balance and equality in reconciling family and work obligations.
written. ‒ although entrepreneurship policy has been one of the most important priorities since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the eu still lags behind in entrepreneurship (12% in the eu-27 in 2009, compared with china and the us, 27 and 21%, respectively). the eu needs a lot of new entrepreneurs, to create new jobs and positions, a new strategy for smart entrepreneurship needs to be created. women entrepreneurs need to be given special attention and ensure their equality and stability as well as economic freedom. the gender gap is still visible - in 2012, only 31% of women in the eu were self-employed. 30% of women in enterprises work part-time, compared with 12% of men. it's harder for women to gain managerial experience, run a business, and gain the trust of investors. they also start with less capital and smaller loans. therefore, i agree with the measures proposed in this report which call on the commission to ensure full gender mainstreaming and to include the issue of women's entrepreneurship in its gender equality strategy for the period after 2015. i also support calls for the government, the administration and the gender equality bodies of the member states to work with the financial sector to ensure equality between men and women.
written. ‒ women's entrepreneurship represents a potential for growth and development that is unfortunately poorly recognised in many eu member states today. women face numerous difficulties on the path to their own enterprise such as the inability to reconcile private and professional life, administrative burdens, discrimination in all spheres of the business environment from banks to business partners, being considered less capable in running a business, etc., which directly leads to a lack of self-confidence and ultimately to the refusal to enter the entrepreneurial environment. also, career choices are predisposed by traditional gender roles in which men are assigned to scientific and technological fields and women to educational, health and social professions. it is necessary to change the prevailing attitudes and to enable women to achieve a work-life balance, in particular by amending the maternity leave directive by inviting member states to consider introducing paternity leave if they have not already done so. in view of the above problems faced by women entrepreneurs today, and the way they are being addressed, i supported a european parliament resolution aimed at providing better working conditions and equal opportunities in the labour market, calling for them to focus on the sectors of new green technologies and eco-entrepreneurship, which represent a great potential with a favourable business environment.
‒ in 2012, in the 28 eu member states, the share of women entrepreneurs was only 31%, or 10.3 million, and only 34.4% of the total number of self-employed in the eu were women. entrepreneurship is crucial for employment, economic growth, innovation, development and overall poverty reduction. i would refer to article 16 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union which explicitly refers to the freedom of entrepreneurship of all eu citizens, thereby empowering and encouraging entrepreneurship, including women's entrepreneurship. i therefore support the report and call on the commission and the member states to recognise the value of entrepreneurship for the work-life balance of women and men, to remove the obstacles that make it difficult or even impossible for women to be entrepreneurs and to adopt a coherent framework of measures to support women's participation in the labour market.
written. ‒ the resolution addresses the external factors that hamper women's entrepreneurship in the european union. in general, entrepreneurship is important because it creates jobs, and countries with strong entrepreneurship have better employee structures and relatively higher incomes. there's not a satisfactory rate of female entrepreneurship at the moment. one of the priorities of the epp women and within the femm committee is to develop the most favourable conditions for women entrepreneurs. entrepreneurship is essential for the union to achieve satisfactory rates of economic growth, development and employment. the european entrepreneurship strategy is smart, sustainable and inclusive development. the european economy is making good progress, but more needs to be done to make things much better. i support the adoption of the resolution on women's entrepreneurship, because a number of external factors, such as gender stereotypes and the so-called glass roof, make it difficult for women to be entrepreneurs.
mr president, i have endorsed this report. youth unemployment is of course linked to the strength of the economies of individual european countries. on the other hand, the phenomenon is so strong that we have to be active in this matter, and that is why i am glad that this report has been adopted. the employment of young people is related to their level of education and their competitiveness in the labour market. and it's clear that in today's globalized world, national education alone is not enough. that is why i am very happy and very much support the programmes that the european union is bringing, such as the erasmus programme. i say this from my own experience as a university cantor, that they greatly improve the quality of individual students, not only in terms of language and professional skills, but also in terms of, say, life maturity and maturity, if a young student spends a year or two in another country of the european union. i also really like the new erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme, which is designed to help young entrepreneurs. the report is good and i'm glad it's been accepted.
mr president, i supported this report because it recognises the key problems facing many european union countries today, including the republic of croatia. the commission has also received information from the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the european union's 'youth on the move' programme. i believe that the proposed measures can improve the situation in europe and i call on the commission and the competent authorities in the member states to design programmes and projects that will help young people to master the necessary knowledge and skills to be competitive in the labour market. in this regard, i welcome the call for closer cooperation between the education sector, public administrations, business and civil society, in particular youth organisations. this will benefit the young, but it will also benefit the economic sector as it will receive a skilled workforce for newly created jobs.
written. ‒ i voted for the policy report on skills development in the fight against youth unemployment because i believe that the high number of 4.5 million unemployed people aged 15-24 can certainly be reduced by quality solutions related to training, education and employment of young people, which should be among the eu's top political priorities. the youth employment crisis must be addressed by creating quality jobs in europe in an effective and sustainable way. it is necessary to anticipate tomorrow's needs and to align young people's skills with labour market needs, and to allow for retraining. i support this report because i believe that young people are too precious for the present and future state of the european economy.
written. ‒ a lot of activities have been undertaken to boost youth entrepreneurship, reduce unemployment and self-employment, but they have not proved effective and we cannot be satisfied with the achievements because more than seven million young europeans are unemployed, not in education and training. the european union has allocated eur 132.3 million through a separate budget of the youth employment initiative (yei), together with associated european social fund (esf) funds, to implement direct interventions for young people. part of the activities related to youth employment is currently funded by the esf 2007-2013 through the so-called direct allocation of funds to the croatian employment office, but the question remains how much of these funds actually returned to the croatian budget. the youth employment initiative has been funded by the european commission since the beginning of 2015 with an advance of eur 26 million to be spent by may 2016 or it will be returned to the european budget. i supported the report on policies to develop skills to combat youth unemployment because developing an entrepreneurial spirit and a positive atmosphere towards entrepreneurship starts from a young age and therefore specific programmes need to be introduced in all educational institutions, from kindergarten to university.
written. ‒ youth unemployment is one of the eu's biggest challenges, amounting to almost 5 million, and posing a serious problem for the eu's economic development and social cohesion. particular attention should be paid to: globalisation, demographic change, economic crisis, new technologies and changes in the organisation of work. croatia is the third country, after greece and spain, most affected by youth unemployment. for the period 2014-2020, croatia has more than eur 132,54 million of eu structural funds at its disposal, including: eur 66,36 million from the esf and eur 66,18 million from the yei for the period 2014-2015. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the youth guarantee to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2013. i am pleased to see that, although still extremely high, youth unemployment rates have been continuously falling, to which the youth guarantee has also contributed. in addition to the guarantee, we need new incentives for 'employment, growth and investment', as a key priority for the commission, which in its 2015 work programme committed to take practical initiatives to promote integration and employability in the labour market. european funds, if used more effectively and strategically, can be an excellent tool to stimulate the growth and development of universities and businesses, and thus further contribute to reducing the scale of this fundamental problem of the young generation.
‒ the european union is faced with a critical problem of youth unemployment, especially with the fact that the unemployment rate varies drastically from one member state to another. the unemployment rate is highlighted by the fact that some 4.5 million young europeans (aged 15-24) are currently unemployed, and some 7 million are not in education or training. as the causes of unemployment are many, it is vital to find an adequate way of approaching each individual in order to identify the problem and define as soon as possible a plan to deal with it, allowing for competitiveness in the labour market. i think the education system plays a big role because it's the gateway to the job market. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the new rules on the participation of young people in the labour market. it is necessary to restructure the education system in terms of encouraging entrepreneurship, understanding the economy, vocational skills, green jobs and jobs related to traditional skills because they contribute not only to the individual but also to the community as a whole. for these reasons, and in view of the particularly high rate of youth unemployment in the republic of croatia, i supported the european parliament resolution.
written. ‒ at the end of 2014, the unemployment rate in the union stood at 9,9%, and the youth unemployment rate was more than double that, at 21,4%. today we have almost 5 million unemployed young people, but there are still 2 million jobs open. the lack of relevant skills for available jobs and the mismatch between education and training are important factors leading to youth unemployment. individual skills development and knowledge dissemination are among the key elements of integrated employment and social policies that can enable long-term growth, promote european competitiveness, fight unemployment and build a more inclusive european society if the multi-faceted needs and capacities of young unemployed people are recognised in the framework of skills development policies. the report encourages the creation of flexible education systems that will develop the professional skills of young people, and i therefore supported it.
written. ‒ i support this draft report because the problem of unemployment, especially among young people, is one of the most important problems facing the european union. unemployment is a major problem in many member states, and it is particularly worrying that the unemployment rate is as high as 50% in some places. this draft report proposes more flexibility in education and employment. market trends are changing rapidly and educational policies need to follow suit, responding to changes and organising educational programmes according to market needs. flexibility is one of the key factors in the modern economy, so we need flexible education and employment. more needs to be done to promote self-employment and encourage young people to enter the world of entrepreneurship. we need to make every effort to reduce unemployment, especially among young people, to the lowest possible level and to halt the trend of increasingly late entry into the labour market.
written. ‒ although there are many job vacancies in the european union, a large number of young people are still unemployed. i believe that we need to give young people better access to the labour market through cooperation and interaction between local authorities, educational institutions and employment services, which are the main proposals of this resolution. i particularly support the part of the report which focuses on the differences in the labour markets in the member states. i also believe that the proposed exchange of good practice in the field of vocational education and training can help countries to reduce youth unemployment, especially among young people with disabilities. i believe that the importance of preserving and transmitting crafts and trades that contain traditional and cultural elements to younger generations is also recognised. but neither is the need to acquire the skills related to science, technology, engineering and mathematics, which are essential for the professional development of an individual in the 21st century, neglected. i believe that the implementation of these recommendations will lead to a reduction in youth unemployment and that is why i supported this resolution.
mr. president, traders based in the european union are required to abide by strict rules of european law, such as a 14-day withdrawal period. it's fair to the customers because they're buying at a premium, but it's creating a huge cost to the retailer. on the other hand, more than 60% of eu citizens are afraid to buy online because they are not sure of their rights in case of a problem. the average consumer finds it very difficult to determine whether an online trader is established in the european union or not. the introduction of a distinctive label will make it easier for customers to identify who they can buy from with confidence, and honest traders will be privileged in the face of competition that does not comply with european directives. the question of delivery also needs to be regulated. it has to be more transparent and cheaper. we can't expect a huge growth in the online marketplace as long as customers are afraid they might get a brick instead of a cell phone.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the act towards a digital single market (2015/2147(ini)), as it is a very important document that promotes and stimulates the european economy, makes it innovative and competitive in the world. it is a logical and necessary continuation of the political and economic integration of the european union. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the union's digital economy. the report calls for an end to the practice of blocking content, in order to encourage the free movement of goods and services, including legally available content; supports competition in the telecommunications sector in order to provide consumers with quality service at affordable prices; supports innovation from the sharing economy towards new forms of technological and economic innovation; supports online platforms. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the e-government, e-health and e-society are key tools for reducing red tape and improving the quality of citizens' daily lives, while e-commerce empowers and offers better choice to consumers. the report calls for a single set of rules and consumer rights for online sales and digital content. the report calls for the internet to become an open and neutral platform, a platform for innovation and communication, to prevent censorship and preserve freedom of expression.
written. ‒ technological developments in recent decades have greatly improved and facilitated the business of entrepreneurs. the use of the internet and mobile communications has changed the way citizens, businesses and their employees communicate, access information, share and use knowledge. this will facilitate the access of smes not only to the eu market but also to other global markets. the commission notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the fact that only 7% of eu smes sell their products and services abroad is a good indication of the potential of this market. this is supported by the fact that only 14% of smes use the internet as a sales channel and there are great opportunities for progress. the full application of the eu competition policy to the digital single market is necessary to ensure a level playing field for all market participants and to reduce the possibility of manipulation and price discrimination against customers. that is why i have endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i welcome the digital single market strategy for europe, as i believe that achieving a digital single market based on a common set of rules could boost eu competitiveness, have positive effects on growth and employment, re-launch the single market and create a more inclusive society, providing new opportunities for citizens and businesses. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the member states in the field of electronic commerce. e-commerce generates eur 500 billion a year in the european union and is important for replenishing offline trade, while at the same time providing consumers with more choice, especially in remote areas, and smes with new opportunities. for all the positive aspects of this strategy, i fully support it.
written. ‒ the digital single market strategy for europe is one of the commission's most important and complex initiatives and holds great promise in terms of its potential to boost growth, innovation, competitiveness and employment. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. on the other hand, what makes this report particularly important is the inclusion of new and less recognised dimensions in terms of the effects and aspects of wtd such as structural changes in society, the impact of digitalisation on the labour market and employment and in particular labour and social rights. in doing so, the call to examine the effects of digitalisation on the psychological state of workers, the disruption of traditional working hours, work from home and safety at work, and the cognitive abilities and development of children is to be welcomed. i also support the call for greater encouragement of digital skills development in the education system as well as the call for greater investment in media and internet literacy among young people. in croatia, for example, there is still too little investment in equipment, teacher education and raising awareness among children and young people about the importance of responsible use of the internet, which is also linked to the lack of the necessary it skills of the labour market.
‒ the internet and digital technology are making life much easier for millions of europeans. they allow easier access to information, develop trade, encourage competition. the creation of a digital single market would, inter alia, improve the access to and portability of digital goods and services, reduce discriminatory activities such as denial of access on the basis of location and nationality, enable easy cross-border parcel delivery when buying online, increase data protection by revising the eprivacy directive which currently only covers telecommunications services, and guarantee a high level of consumer protection. i welcome this initiative of the european commission, considering that the ideas are beneficial for the population throughout europe, as well as for the citizens of the republic of croatia, because it would create a common market based on fair competition, promoting growth and employment, reducing vat and a high level of mutual cooperation through the use of new technologies and innovations that would provide consumers with the widest choice of products at the best prices. it is also important to highlight the potential of new information and communication technologies for the economy and society as a whole, in particular by linking them to sectors of particular importance such as energy, education, health, financial services, etc. on the other hand, taking all the components into account, we must not forget consumer rights, the protection of personal data, the protection of copyright and the respect of fair competition.
written. ‒ the use of the internet and rapidly developing mobile communications has changed the way citizens, companies and their employees communicate and access information and knowledge. this has enlarged and transformed the economy, making it easier for smes to reach 500 million potential customers in the eu as well as global markets, and giving individuals the opportunity to develop new entrepreneurial ideas and business models. the commission has also identified a number of other areas where the union should be able to contribute to the development of the sharing economy. i believe that achieving a digital single market based on a common set of rules could boost eu competitiveness, have positive effects on growth and employment, re-launch the single market and create a more inclusive society, providing new opportunities for citizens and businesses, in particular through the exchange and sharing of innovation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital single market strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital single market strategy.
written. ‒ the digital single market strategy is based on three pillars: better access to internet goods and services for all citizens and businesses in the european union, creating the legislative conditions for digital networks and services, and optimising the conditions for growth in the european digital economy, which the commission is working hard on. better access for all legal and natural persons implies better quality of cross-border cooperation, lower vat rates, high quality of supply regardless of border barriers and the prevention of unjustified cross-border barriers. the creation of the legislative conditions for the digital network implies reviewing the legal framework and aligning it with market trends and working on trust in digital trade. in 2016, the commission intends to create conditions for the smooth flow of data, launch an integrated standardisation plan and similar activities. i support this report because it creates conditions for a more competitive market and greater consumer choice.
madam president, i can only welcome the european council's firm stance on the need to restore control of the external borders, because i think it is clear to everyone today that the poor migration policy of the union and of some european leaders has led to enormous problems that we will face not only in the coming months but probably for the next decade. we must finally come to our senses and realize that with the scale of migration to europe, member states cannot enforce rules that are written to apply in controlled conditions, not in cataclysms. asylum policies were put in place to protect individuals and groups in danger of dying in their home countries, not entire nations, as an advanced civilization. if we continue to take in migrants in the numbers we have seen in recent months, we will deepen security and social problems across europe. in such circumstances, many good rules will no longer be enforceable and the positive effects of european integration will quickly be reversed.
mr president, after more than 50 years of armed conflict which has torn colombia apart and cost more than 200 000 lives, the colombian government and the farc have reached an agreement of essential importance on the creation of a special jurisdiction for peace, which must satisfy the rights of the victims and lay the foundations for a stable and lasting peace. this agreement has a relevance that could be historic if it is successfully brought to the implementation stage. the european parliament therefore wishes to express its satisfaction with the agreement reached last september, but also to support the conclusion of a final peace agreement before 23 march. in this connection, mrs mogherini, you have appointed the former irish foreign minister, mr simon gilmore, as the union's special envoy for the peace process in colombia. and that was surely a wise decision. the union should now deepen its support with a trust fund to accompany the post-conflict phase in colombia, as proposed in our motion for a resolution. and i'm glad to hear that you and commissioner mimica are working on it. like commissioner mimica, i come from croatia and we know well the importance of the international community's support for reconciliation processes. in view of this experience, i would therefore like to stress the need for the european union to actively accompany colombia in this peace process.
madam president, i believe that it is crucial to find a political solution to the conflict between all the parties concerned so that the situation in syria can begin to gradually resolve after five years of war and so that peace negotiations can bear fruit. the danger posed by daesh is too serious and requires unity and an immediate response. according to available data, in february 2015 alone, daesh attacked 35 christian villages, abducting over 250 people and driving 3,000 from their homes. the situation today is even worse. the starvation, expulsion and killing of christians is a heavy loss for all of us, and especially for syria, whose society must understand that respect for human rights and religious freedom is one of the foundations of any democratic development. we must do everything in our power to encourage all actors to take concrete action against daesh and to achieve the much-needed peace.
mr president of the dutch government, your presidency comes at a difficult time when europe is full of worries and facing a crisis from without and within. expectations are high, and we expect european unity, but also european determination. we understand your priorities and, of course, first and foremost, your comprehensive approach to migration and international security. instability outside the european union certainly increases security risks including terrorism. you are aware that the events in paris have heightened concern about these problems. the strict control of our borders is certainly necessary, and it requires that you implement decisively the package of measures on migration presented by the commission. i personally believe that schengen will survive, but you have to take into account that some eu member states, like croatia, where i come from, are still pushing to meet the criteria for schengen, and we're talking about abolishing it and how it's under threat. we certainly need to establish an external border guard, implement an action plan with turkey, because it is obvious that there is no other solution. i support your second priority, europe as an innovator and creator of new jobs, and i am speaking here in particular with regard to the employment of young people. i also support your third priority - sound finances, a strong eurozone. be careful of tax policy. your actions are expected to be related to small and medium-sized enterprises and competitiveness vis-à-vis multinational companies. your long-term climate and energy policy objective is also clear - so a combination of short-term and long-term objectives can lead to a good presidency. i don't want to forget about gender equality here, which you don't mention in your program on women's participation in company boards. i consider it one of the most important pillars of society. you may have met those criteria in the netherlands, but clearly we haven't yet in the eu.
written. a comprehensive approach to migration and international security, european leadership in innovation and job creation, european finance for the future and long-term climate and energy policies are well-balanced priorities announced by the kingdom of the netherlands for the next 6 months of the eu presidency. given that agriculture and fisheries are vital to the european economy and provide the people of europe with a secure supply of quality food, i believe that the dutch presidency will put the emphasis on a 'climate-smart' approach to agriculture and reducing food waste. the challenges of the european agricultural policy are reflected in the excessive administrative burden on farmers, and i therefore expect the dutch presidency to actively pursue the policy of simplifying the cap. i consider it necessary to increase the care for small farmers and family farms, because family farms are the cornerstone of the common agricultural policy. i call on the dutch presidency to take action to address the problems faced by farmers in the food supply market and to help bring about european-level regulations to tackle unfair trading practices.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to vehicle registration data in latvia, as this strengthens the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime and enhances cross-border cooperation between the member states of the union. i believe that the exchange of information and data should be fast and efficient, and that it is necessary to ensure the improvement of the quality of information in order to guarantee the principles of security, freedom and justice.
written. ‒ the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to vehicle registration data in latvia takes particular account of the deepening of cross-border cooperation with a view to combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the automated data exchange aims to strengthen cross-border law enforcement cooperation in the european union and the practical application of the prüm decision and the european information exchange model. i supported the report by representative moraes because it covers the exchange of information when criminal events have a cross-border dimension. in such cases, the proposed model may be applied only where necessary and proportionate and on the basis of specific circumstances indicating that a criminal offence may have been committed.
written. ‒ taking into account the council decision to increase crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, the personal data collected will not be used until the member states involved in the collection have introduced provisions on the protection of the same. in order to establish whether data protection is in line with the council decision, an evaluation report based on the survey, the field assessment and the pilot test should be written. in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, information sharing is of paramount importance, but it also needs to be protected. the more countries with good intentions are involved in preventing terrorism and other criminal activities, the more likely it is that prevention will occur. latvia has completed the data protection survey, the vehicle registration data exchange survey and has successfully conducted a pilot test with the netherlands. on the basis of the overall evaluation, on 8 october 2015 the council adopted a decision stating that latvia has successfully implemented the provisions of chapter 6 on data protection. some countries such as denmark and ireland are participating in the adoption and application of the proposed act, while the united kingdom is not obliged to apply the same act.
written. ‒ i support the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange from vehicle registers in latvia. this is another decision in a series of cooperation arrangements in the field of cross-border information exchange and is particularly important in terms of the joint efforts of member states in preventing terrorism and cross-border crime. i welcome this green light to latvia to participate in the provision and receipt of personal data for the purposes stated, as it has fulfilled all the conditions regarding the protection of personal data.
written. ‒ i fully support the report by claude moraes on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange from vehicle registers (adr) in latvia. according to article 4 of the annex to decision 2008/616/jha, the questionnaire drawn up by the relevant council of europe working group covers any automated data exchange and must be completed by the member state as soon as it believes it fulfils the conditions for sharing data in the relevant data category. latvia has completed the questionnaire on data protection and on the exchange of vehicle registration data. latvia has had a successful pilot run with the netherlands. in october 2015, the council concluded that latvia has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in article 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. as a consequence, and for the purpose of automated searching of vehicle registration data, latvia should be granted the right to receive and supply personal data pursuant to article 12 of decision 2008/615/jha.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the fight against terrorism under council decision 2008/615/jha has accelerated the start of automatic data exchange and personal data from the vehicle register can be used within the territory defined by law, i.e. within the member states of the european union, but the same (personal data) need to be protected by a provision. the decision to automatically exchange data was taken on the basis of the fulfilment of certain conditions (assessment report). on 8 october 2015, the council concluded that latvia has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection under decision 2008/615/jha. the council decision authorises latvia to receive and supply personal data in accordance with the rules (within the member states). the more countries involved in preventing terrorism and crime, the more likely it is to be suppressed, and that is why i support this proposal.
written. ‒ the council decided that border cooperation with neighbouring countries should be improved to prevent possible terrorist attacks and other threats. mutual exchange of data is necessary to identify potential threats, but data protection must be at a high level. in order to create the conditions for secure international data exchange, it is necessary to create circumstances in which all personal data are secure. latvia has successfully completed a survey on data security and exchange with neighbouring countries to prevent terrorism and cross-border crime, and the same procedure is underway in other member states. the united kingdom is exempted from this council decision. latvia has successfully carried out the exchange of vehicle registration data with the netherlands. the council reported that latvia had successfully completed the survey and had successfully amended the provision in the chapter related to data protection. i support this proposal because data protection is of the utmost importance and data sharing is necessary in the circumstances we are in at the moment.
written. ‒ in order to make a strong contribution to the fight against terrorism and international organised crime, i support the report by rapporteur moraes on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia. cross-border cooperation between institutions will thus be taken to a higher level, and at a time when international organised crime and terrorism are at their peak, such exchange of information is more than welcome. in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, the commission should be able to provide information to the member states on the implementation of the schengen acquis and on the application of the schengen acquis to third countries. i would also like to call on the institutions to effectively implement such provisions, which aim to strengthen measures to combat all forms of threats to both national security and global security.
written. ‒ i support this report on the first reading of the agreement in criminal proceedings. i believe that effective criminal procedure remains essential to strike the right balance between repressive measures and the individual's right to a fair trial. the adoption of rules governing the presumption of innocence is certainly an important step in striking a balance.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings, as this is the way in which the minimum european standards of law constituting the principle of the presumption of innocence are defined. i believe that this strengthens the rights of individuals in criminal proceedings and guarantees a fair trial for all european citizens. however, it is clear that there are still breaches of the principles mentioned throughout the european union and that some adjustments and amendments are needed. in this context, i support the rapporteur's amendments and, therefore, the report.
written. ‒ the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council aims to strengthen certain aspects of the rights of suspects or accused persons. the right to a fair trial is one of the fundamental principles of a democratic society, guaranteed by article 47 of the charter and article 6 of the european convention on human rights (echr). the right of an accused person to be present at his or her own trial should be guaranteed in the union. the principle of effectiveness of union law requires member states to establish appropriate and effective remedies in the event of a breach of the rights of individuals under union law. the proposals made mainly concern the following rights: the right not to be found guilty by a public authority before a final judgment is rendered, the fact that the burden of proof is on the prosecution, the right not to incriminate oneself, the right to remain silent, the right to attend one's own trial and the right to a retrial. the legal affairs committee considered the proposals in detail and adopted a series of amendments which were unanimously adopted. i supported the report by ms griesbeck because every person has the right to a sufficiently high level of protection in criminal proceedings and it is up to the member states to apply appropriate protection mechanisms and to ensure the presumption of innocence.
written. - i believe that every accused has the right to a fair trial. guilt has to be proven, and i'm a big proponent of the presumption of innocence. it is important to provide suspects with all the conditions for the preparation of their defence and to ensure that confidential information from criminal proceedings is not disclosed to the public during the proceedings in order not to encourage the public to believe that they are guilty. so, you should be careful in statements you give to the media during trials. the court should be impartial in its work and i am pleased that the members of the committee have emphasised this in their report. the use of force is not a means of gathering information because, in addition to being inhumane and a violation of human dignity, it cannot obtain credible testimony from a party to a criminal proceeding. it is natural to give the suspect the right not to incriminate himself, and i support the position expressed in the report that non-cooperation should not be considered as evidence of guilt. we must retain the right to remain silent as a possibility, as well as the right to a retrial in the event of new evidence to preserve the fairness of the trial. finally, i would point out that defendants of serious crimes for which a prison sentence is prescribed should be present at the trial. this report consolidates the right to a fair trial, makes good and concrete proposals and i therefore supported it.
written. ‒ i believe that in times of crisis, which unfortunately often foster an atmosphere of fear, lynching and social closure, it is particularly important to insist on the presumption of innocence as one of the fundamental principles of a fair trial. the commission should also be able to take into account the specific needs of the member states and the union as a whole. only effective and consistent procedural safeguards can ensure the protection of the rights of accused persons and suspects. in this respect, i consider article 4 of this proposal to be particularly important, which insists on the prohibition of prejudice and imputation of guilt before proven guilt by public authorities. furthermore, important achievements are the elimination of the original part of the text that was intended to allow in certain cases the reversal of the burden of proof and the principle in dubio pro reo, but also the stated commitment to protect the right to remain silent. in addition, and also in relation to the rights of individuals and specifically the right to be present, it is commendable that the amendments significantly tightened the conditions for the conduct of proceedings and the taking of decisions in cases where the person concerned is not present. the union's commitment to strong regulation guaranteeing the right to a fair trial should, in this form, exert greater pressure on all those states and for all cases where this right is called into question.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs nathalie griesbeck on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. the right to be present at the trial in criminal proceedings is an essential right of the defence. it is also crucial for the fulfilment of the right to a fair trial conferred by article 6 of the 1953 european convention for the protection of human rights. i therefore believe that the empowerment of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings will greatly contribute to the application of the right to a fair trial. the presumption of innocence is also important and the european commission has recognised this during its in-depth review of the issue of innocence and concluded that a measure on certain aspects of the presumption of innocence is necessary to strengthen this fundamental right. in february 2013, croatia held a meeting with representatives of the ministries of justice of the european union member states specifically on the presumption of innocence, thereby demonstrating its concern for human rights and their enforcement. i believe that this directive would greatly strengthen the rights of individuals in criminal proceedings, which was the focus of the stockholm programme. it is very important to remove the perception that the rights of suspects or accused persons are not respected at every stage, as this has a very detrimental effect on mutual trust and judicial cooperation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to continue the already adopted linked directives (2010/64/eu on the right to interpretation and translation; 2012/13/eu on the right to information; 2013/48/eu on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings). this directive aims to strengthen the right to a fair trial in criminal proceedings by laying down minimum rules on certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial. by establishing minimum rules on the protection of procedural rights of suspects or accused persons, this directive should strengthen the confidence of member states in the criminal justice systems of other member states and thereby facilitate the mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters. having regard to the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i support this report.
written. ‒ the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial are fundamental rights of the individual. there is no question that everyone has the right to a defense. there are already three rights that everyone can consume, and these are the right to translation and interpretation, the right to information and the right to counsel in judicial proceedings. this proposal proposes that an individual be presumed innocent before public authorities until proven guilty. the right to remain silent and to refuse to cooperate are essential elements of this proposal. i support this motion, because the rights of the individual must not be subject to any interference and every individual has the right to defend his innocence before the authorities.
written. ‒ the directive on strengthening certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings contains a number of useful recommendations, of which i would particularly highlight the right of the accused to be presumed innocent until proven guilty. i would also like to highlight one of the most important rights, which is the right to be present at trial, which must be available to all defendants and suspects because it should reduce the number of cases in which they are convicted in absentia. although i believe that this report contains many useful provisions to protect the right of suspects to a fair trial, i consider that the proposal to extend the scope of the directive to legal entities is unfounded and unacceptable. that's why i abstained.
written. ‒ as a doctor of occupational and sports medicine, i support the report because it includes all the important elements for the health of workers. i'd like to congratulate my colleague, mrs. stihler, on a job well done.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment because it guarantees the free movement of personal protective equipment and its users with a high level of safety, while at the same time strengthening the single market. i support the need to clearly define the basic conditions for placing ppe on the market in compliance with health and safety requirements. i also consider it necessary to ensure that the authorities in charge of market surveillance are able to monitor and withdraw unsafe products from the market. in this context, i consider that the modernisation and simplification of the system in question, which has been initiated, should be continued and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ member states should take all necessary measures to ensure that products covered by this regulation can be placed on the market only if they do not endanger the health and safety of users and other persons. taking into account that the cost to social security and entrepreneurs is 5.9% of gross domestic product and that adequate protection of workers promotes well-being, productivity, risk prevention through the use of quality protective equipment is key to reducing accidents at work and occupational diseases. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of ppe, including the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of ppe, and the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of ppe, including the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of ppe, and the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of ppe, including the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of ppe, and the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of ppe. i supported the report by vicky ford because the right to health and safety is a fundamental right and all workers must enjoy a legal guarantee of working conditions that respect their health, safety and dignity.
written. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to amend directive 89/686/eec on personal protective equipment (ppe) to ensure an even higher level of protection of human health and safety, while guaranteeing fair competition in the european ppe market. the proposal also requires manufacturers of ppe to draw up a technical dossier to ensure that it is issued in accordance with the rules and standards of the european union. in addition to simplifying the definition itself, i.e. the categorisation of weee, all personal protective equipment intended for protection against drowning, injuries from hand-held chainsaws, high-pressure cutters, bullet wounds, knife stabs, noxious sounds, is required to be subjected to the strictest procedural checks. the proposed amendments would provide clear guidance to producers and users, resulting in increased trust between them. it is also necessary to encourage the competent authorities to carry out inspections as frequently and as rigorously as possible in order to minimise accidents. the proposal will be applicable for two years after its entry into force, in order to give sufficient time for manufacturers, competent authorities and member states to adapt.
written. ‒ the existing regulation on personal protective equipment needs to be aligned with the new legislative framework (nlf) which seeks to simplify redundant, confusing and duplicative acts. in this regard, it is important to clarify the role of the various parties, in particular economic operators, and to specify the powers of the authorities supervising the market and monitoring the flow of precarious goods. the achievements of this well-balanced text are also commendable in terms of the rules on the design and manufacture of protective equipment itself, its advertising, but also the rights of individuals to private use of the same. i support the overall efforts of this proposal for a regulation to reinforce the importance of the right of workers to safety at work, taking into account that this safety is often caused precisely by the lack of knowledge of the necessary protective equipment, but also by its incorrect use.
written. ‒ i fully support the report by mrs vicky ford on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment. the proposal for a regulation on personal protective equipment aims to update the existing council directive 89/686/eec and to align it with the new legislative framework on the marketing of products. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a reference to the 'new approach' to the definition of the term 'commercial policy' in the directive. the commission considers that the change in the instrument does not have significant practical implications for the financial instruments. it is essential to mention that only instruments which are fully effective can guarantee the safety of workers. accidents at work are often the result of the failure to use or misuse of appropriate protective equipment. last but not least, it is noted that protection should be tailored to those who use it, for example by categorizing it according to gender, age or special needs.
written. ‒ i support the conditions for ensuring the protection of the health and safety of users, as the proposal requires manufacturers of personal protective equipment to draw up technical documentation to ensure that it is issued in accordance with the applicable eu rules and standards. ppe shall be subject to procedural checks and is personal protective equipment intended to protect against drowning, injuries from hand-held chainsaws, high-pressure cutters, bullet wounds, knife stabs, noisy sounds. the commission has also concluded that the proposed amendments to the existing rules on the protection of the health and safety of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and to the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens. i support this proposal because we are aiming for a high level of health protection and a high level of safety.
written. ‒ i supported the improvements and upgrading of the personal protective equipment regulation because i believe that these changes will simplify and modernise the sector. i also support efforts to reduce administrative burdens in order to improve the legislative certainty of all those involved in the production and supervision of products placed on the european union market. however, in order to ensure that the purpose of this regulation is achieved, it is important that each member state reports if it considers that a particular piece of equipment does not comply with the conditions and does not meet the safety requirements. the commission has not found that the amendments to the basic regulation are necessary to ensure that the union industry is able to benefit from the new provisions. i also consider that member states must direct their efforts towards ensuring that those products do not endanger human health.
written. ‒ carbon monoxide poisoning is very common in croatia. so i'm pleased that my amendment on the importance of regular servicing and quality manufacturing of such products for consumer safety has been adopted.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on gas appliances because i believe that the rules in the sector concerned need to be applied uniformly across the union in order to increase consumer confidence in the quality of products and to strengthen market surveillance. it is essential to protect the health and safety of users and to promote the rational use of energy in terms of sustainability and competitiveness of the sector and coherence of the european union's energy policy. precautions must be taken to avoid all forms of possible carbon monoxide poisoning, which is the leading cause of death in gas-fired appliances.
written. ‒ the report by ms stihler highlighted the need for regular maintenance of gas appliances so that the devices on the market do not endanger the health and safety of consumers or their environment. this initiative is in line with the elements of the single market which further foster user confidence and guarantee a high quality of service both in the european union and in croatia. it is crucial to raise public awareness of the need for regular maintenance of gas appliances in order to reduce environmental damage and the potential for carbon monoxide poisoning, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ the proposed regulation does not change the purpose of directive 2009/142/ec on appliances burning gaseous fuels, but modifies some provisions in order to clearly define and update its content. some of the most important changes proposed by this regulation are the removal of the outdated temperature limit of 105°c from defined ranges, the introduction of specific definitions for this area not covered by directive 2009/142/ec, the introduction of harmonised content and format of communication between member states on the type of gas and supply pressure used in each of them, the clarification of the relationship between directive 2009/142/ec and other eu regulations, and the clarification of certain parts of directive 2009/142/ec. the proposed regulation will be applicable for two years after its entry into force in order to give manufacturers, competent authorities and member states sufficient time to adapt. in order to allow for a smooth transition period, transitional provisions are provided for products produced under directive 2009/142/ec. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the proposed amendments with the requirements of this regulation.
written. ‒ when it comes to harmonising regulations to improve the internal market for goods, special attention should be paid to those products, ingredients and parts which may pose a threat to health and safety. in this respect, i welcome this proposal for a regulation on gas appliances, which covers various household and non-household appliances and associated equipment. given that sales of these products within the union amount to as many as 30 million pieces per year, further progress in harmonising regulations to prevent the leakage of harmful gases (in particular carbon monoxide) or other substances harmful to the health and safety of all is important and commendable. the change from a directive to a regulation will ensure clear and precise rules that can be applied equally in all member states and prevent differences in transmission that potentially lead to market distortions or different levels of product safety. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market.
written. ‒ this proposal would make a major contribution to the harmonisation of legislation within the european union and to ensuring the free movement of gas appliances. it complements the free market and harmonises the conditions for the use and placing on the market of gas-fired appliances in view of the risks related to the security of gas supply and the rational use of energy. as the gas sector plays a vital role in the eu economy, employing 476 000 people in the gas appliance sector alone, this proposal is of considerable importance. the european union's gas appliance stock is around 470 million, of which more than 30 million are sold annually, and these figures are constantly growing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (oj l 347, 20.12.2010, p. for all these reasons, i support the report by mrs catherine stihler on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on appliances for gas appliances.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i supported the amendments to directive 2009/142/ec which advocate that all gas-fuelled appliances available on the market meet conditions which should ensure a high level of protection of health and safety of the user, as well as his property and the rational use of energy. the regulation proposes stricter testing rules for all types of appliances fuelled with gaseous fuels, which is important for manufacturers and users to minimise the risk of possible injuries.
written. ‒ the gas sector plays an important role in the eu economy and employs 476 000 people. gas appliances cover a wide range of products. we're talking here about simple portable stoves all the way up to boilers for large buildings. this initiative is in line with the single market act, which emphasised the need to ensure consumer confidence in the quality of products on the market and the importance of strengthening market surveillance. this is in line with the union's energy policy and does not affect the application and implementation of union legislation in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i am aware of all the advantages of this proposal and therefore support it.
written. - i supported the proposal for a regulation on gas-fuelled appliances that would replace the current one and ensure the free movement of gas-fuelled appliances. i consider that this proposal will harmonise the conditions for the placing on the market of such appliances, which will contribute to simplifying environmental regulation and ensure a more favourable functioning of the market for appliances fuelled with gaseous fuels. i also support clear targets that will benefit both producers and consumers, taking into account safety measures and the rational distribution of energy. i consider that the proper and efficient functioning of the internal market requires common rules for gas appliances with regard to the health and safety risks arising from the use of gas and their energy efficiency. as the proposal is in line with the single market act which emphasises customer confidence in product quality as well as many improvements in addressing potential and possible problems, i voted in favour of its adoption.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on cableway installations because it harmonises the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and guarantees the free movement of these products within the european union, which directly affects the single market. in order to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure a uniform implementation of the rules throughout the union, taking into account that certain aspects of cableways, such as regional planning and environmental protection, remain the competence of the member states. in addition, it is necessary to ensure legal clarity in order to implement the legislation in the area concerned in a consistent and effective manner.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr antonio lopez-isturiz white because i believe that all the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway lines should be harmonised. member states shall take all necessary measures if it is established that an approved cableway installation could endanger the health, safety of persons and property, restrict the working conditions or prohibit its operation.
written. ‒ i support this proposal because i believe that member states should take all necessary steps to ensure that cableway installations can only be put into service if they comply with this regulation and if they cannot endanger the health or safety of persons or the safety of property, if they are properly installed and maintained and used in accordance with their intended purpose. i also support this proposal because it clearly states that when placing subsystems and safety components on the market, each importer of a subsystem or safety component should indicate its name, registered trade name or registered trade mark and the postal address at which it is available, as well as the websites if they exist. exceptions should be provided for in cases where the size or type of subsystem or safety component does not allow it. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the granting of such rights. the penalties provided for should be effective, in accordance with the gravity of the offence. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment and on the environment as a whole.
written. ‒ this proposal for a regulation on cableways aims at harmonising the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components of cableways in order to ensure their free movement in the internal market. it is commendable that the aim is to achieve maximum harmonisation in order to ensure simpler, better and safer rules. in that sense, it is better to have a regulation than a directive. the cableway is defined as elevator systems such as climbers, suspended cables, cab suspended cables, seats, towing cables and other cableway used for tourism or sporting purposes. it is positive that historical and museum traction installations and those with a forestry or agricultural function are not included in the regulation as the aim is to cover the safety aspects of public use, i.e. public transport use. i believe that the issue of safety, together with the importance of market surveillance and harmonisation, is crucial for this regulation and is dealt with in a qualitative way by the text of the proposal.
written. ‒ i agree with the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cableways prepared by mr antonio lópez-istúriz white. the proposed regulation, which aims to update the existing wireline legislation in the european union, clarifies the inclusion of subsystems and safety components of cables in the scope of the regulation. one of the purposes of this proposal is to address the difficulties encountered in implementing directive 2000/9/ec. for example, authorities, notified bodies and manufacturers have entirely different answers to the question whether a specific type of installation is covered by directive 2000/9/ec and therefore has to be manufactured and certified in accordance with the requirements and procedures of the directive. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. i therefore consider this proposal to be of great importance and i fully support it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a cable car regulation which is an example of harmonised legislation within the eu. the purpose of the proposal is to harmonise the conditions under which subsystems and safety components for cables are placed on the market and to ensure the free movement of these products within the union. all safety components and subsystems will have to meet the standards prescribed by the regulation. the regulation will replace directive 2000/9/ec of 20 march 2000 relating to cableway installations for the carriage of persons. the change of the applicable legal instrument, i.e. the replacement of a directive by a regulation, seeks to ensure better regulation and simplify the regulatory framework. the regulation will avoid unnecessary transport costs and will set out clear and detailed rules applicable throughout the union. the regulation will also reduce the risk of divergent transposition, i.e. ensure a uniform level of security protection throughout the union, and prevent deviations in the internal market.
written. ‒ i supported the amendments to the legislation on cable cars because the new legislative framework brings standardised obligations to manufacturers, importers and market surveillance authorities, which will lead to a significant reduction in administrative barriers, as well as a clearer regulatory environment for all economic operators. in addition, i consider the conformity assessment procedure, i.e. the selection of a random sample and the examination of all its subsystems or safety components, to be an appropriate and objective way of determining whether a sample will be accepted or rejected. in particular, i support efforts to allow the use of alternative technical solutions, as well as to place cableways of historic construction outside the scope of this regulation and under the jurisdiction of national legislation. i also support the decision that member states should continue to have the responsibility to regulate other aspects of cableways such as land use, spatial planning and environmental protection.
written. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 25 november 2015 amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences because it is a motion for a resolution by a political group that clearly had no chance of winning the support of parliament and i therefore decided to follow the alde group's position and voted against the resolution.
written. ‒ customs preferences are provided for by a special agreement on incentives for sustainable development and good governance, provided that it has ratified all the necessary conventions and that the latest available conclusions of the supervisory authorities do not indicate serious deficiencies in the effective implementation of any of those conventions. whereas the supervisory authorities of the relevant conventions have identified significant deficiencies in a number of conventions relevant to the tso+ and that those problems represent a serious deficiency in the effective implementation of the relevant conventions listed in annex viii to the tso regulation; i supported the objection because the granting of customs benefits requires a case-by-case assessment to meet all the necessary conditions due to the fact that customs benefits are not granted automatically.
written. ‒ i call on kyrgyzstan to respect human rights and values, and i am in favour of greater economic exchange between kyrgyzstan and the european union. such cooperation would lead to the creation of better ties, i.e. would contribute to further strengthening of democracy and human rights in that country. i believe that the abolition of the gsp would lead to harmful consequences for kyrgyzstan and its people, and therefore i consider it of paramount importance to deepen trade relations with that country in order to improve the daily lives of its citizens. further sanctions could undermine any possibility of progress in the relations between kyrgyzstan and the european union, leading to negative consequences for all participants. the progress of kyrgyzstan, i.e. its efforts to strengthen freedoms, should be welcomed and assisted in their further efforts to bring about even greater changes in democracy and the protection of human rights as soon as possible. in view of all the negative consequences that would result from the abolition of the gsp, i do not support this resolution, i.e. the objection to the delegated act on the gsp.
written. ‒ taking into account the situation in kyrgyzstan, i support the resolution on these regulations concerning the application of the gsp. according to the reports of various committees, the human rights situation in the kyrgyz republic is of concern and the government of the kyrgyz republic has not fulfilled its obligations towards the un and other international organisations and committees with regard to the report on compliance with certain standards, which is a prerequisite for the country to become a beneficiary of the gsp scheme. in particular, we are talking about reports that warn of the widespread practice of torture, the lack of basic legal protection, political and police repression, ethnic discrimination, and the widespread occurrence of the most serious forms of violation of children's rights, such as sexual exploitation, the abduction of minors, physical abuse, etc. also alarming is kyrgyzstan's proposed law on homosexual propaganda, which violates an individual's right to privacy as well as freedom of expression. the european union must promote good governance, human rights and democratic principles and insist on respect for these values in its relations with third countries and partners.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the main objective of the gsp is to facilitate preferential access to the eu market for developing countries and territories by reducing customs duties on their products. the customs preferences on the eu market should allow developing countries to participate more in international trade, generating additional export revenues that they can then use to implement their policies of sustainable development and poverty reduction and diversify their economies. the general system of preferences does not require or expect these countries to grant reciprocal preferential access to their markets. for the reasons stated above, i voted against this objection to the delegated act on the gsp scheme.
written. ‒ i support the objection to the delegated act on the gsp, as kyrgyzstan has not met the agreed requirements. the european union grants preferential customs treatment to certain countries. in the case at hand, the european union has authorised kyrgyzstan to place certain goods on the union market under preferential customs conditions, but kyrgyzstan has not complied with the union's requirements. we therefore need to suspend this process until kyrgyzstan meets the eu's conditions.
written. ‒ i voted against the objection to the delegated act on the system of generalised tariff preferences, initiated by the club of european united left - nordic green left meps, because they consider that kyrgyzstan is not making progress in implementing the provisions of the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i consider that the objection does not take into account the positive steps of the government of kyrgyzstan as one of the poorest countries in the region. the government of the kyrgyz republic has taken positive steps to improve human rights by various initiatives to combat violence against women, improving the refugee law, introducing human rights education programmes for public officials and judges, striving to guarantee the independence of judges, and directly applying international treaties before courts. in addition, i believe that the gsp is an additional motivation for kyrgyzstan to continue reforms, as well as to strengthen its economy, increase exports and promote industrialization, and therefore should not be abolished.
written. ‒ the commission simply re-writes the 1996 regulation which allows baby food to contain up to 30% sugar and i therefore support this objection. in 2015, the world health organization recommended that sugar and salt should not be added to food for babies under two years of age. introducing high-sugar foods, especially at such an early stage, can contribute to a higher number of obese children and affect the development of taste preferences that are still developing in children.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 609/2013 as regards specific ingredient and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods as it objects to the commission delegated regulation. the protection of infants and young children should be the primary objective of the delegated regulation, but the maximum sugar level is too high and the zero tolerance for pesticides does not apply in full. poor nutrition is one of the leading causes of disease and death worldwide, and i believe that when it comes to infant nutrition, special care should be taken and the highest standards used. on the other hand, public confidence in the eu institutions and the transparency of the decision-making process must also be increased.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because poor diet is by far the biggest cause of illness and death worldwide, even greater than tobacco, alcohol and physical inactivity combined. the commission has not submitted to parliament and the council the report on food for young children required by regulation (eu) no 609/2013 (article 12) and which is a necessary condition for national strategies to reduce childhood obesity. the maximum level of sugars should be significantly reduced in accordance with the who recommendations.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on a delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) of the european parliament and of the council with regard to specific ingredient and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods objecting to the commission delegated regulation. i believe that in accordance with the precautionary principle in infant formula, there should be no untested and emerging technologies, such as gmos and nanotechnology, whose long-term dangers are not yet known. in view of the sensitivity of infants and the possible impact of pesticides on their endocrine system, i consider it necessary to introduce a zero tolerance to pesticides in baby food. i also agree with the experts of the world health organization that for the first six months of a child's life, the best food is mother's milk. the inability to breastfeed is unfortunately a disorder that young mothers are increasingly suffering from, due to stress, unfavourable working conditions, in part, and as a consequence of insufficient social care in some countries with a poor legislative framework on maternity leave, but it is not a rule and a reason to avoid highlighting this important recommendation of the world health organization. for these reasons i supported this resolution and i expect the new commission proposal to take parliament's objection into account.
written. ‒ i support the objection to the commission delegated regulation allowing a higher level of sugar in baby food (30% of the energy value, i.e. 7,5 g sugar/100 kcal) than recommended by the world health organisation. such a solution would jeopardise the healthy development of children, i.e. eating foods with these sugar levels at an early age may contribute to the growing obesity of children and the development of unhealthy habits, which is of particular concern given that poor diet is the leading underlying cause of disease worldwide. scientific research and findings on the safe use of breast-milk substitutes should also be taken into account and it should be ensured that the appropriate age of consumption is emphasised in the labelling of the product. this is, among other things, the duty of the union as an international organisation that leads in promoting high-quality public health principles. unfortunately, in croatia too, the regulation on processed cereal-based foods and baby foods for infants and young children allows a level of up to 7.5 g of sugar per 100 kcal and i hope that this provision will soon be changed.
written. ‒ i did not support this objection to the delegated act on specific ingredient and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods to regulation (eu) no 609/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 june 2013 on food for infants and young children, food for special medical needs and substitution of whole food for reduction diets and repealing council directive 92/52/eec, commission directive 96/8/ec as some persons need such ingredients because they are unable to breastfeed for health or occupational reasons. i also believe that consumers have a choice, but that it is extremely important to inform them correctly about the ingredients.
written. ‒ the envi committee calls on the commission to postpone its application in order to further align views on the content of processed baby food and information on packaging. the european commission has proposed that baby food can still contain up to three times more sugar than the world health organisation recommends. i think that's unacceptable because it doesn't prevent the risk of obesity. i support the delay in the entry into force of this resolution on the ingredients and information in baby food, and poor nutrition is also the biggest cause of mortality in the world, so it is necessary to encourage better nutrition from an early age.
written. ‒ i voted against the objection to the delegated act on specific ingredient and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods because i consider that the rejection of the commission's proposal is too strong a reaction. in particular, while agreeing with the rapporteur in some parts, for example in the part stating that the intake of sugar in the general population should be reduced, the commission has committed to consider the final sugar content level during 2016, i.e. after the european food safety authority has published its opinion on the said issue. i understand that the current levels seem high, but i do not think it is necessary to reject this act entirely and i support the commission in its commitment to change the levels of added sugars once it has full data.
written. ‒ i support this declaration on the peace process in colombia, which calls for the establishment of a bilateral agreement and a final ceasefire as a precondition for the establishment of a full and lasting peace. i believe that the european parliament must take a coherent and well-coordinated response to this situation, which will help to further increase support for further negotiations and the creation of an agreement.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on support for the peace process in colombia, as the eu, as an active 'player' in creating a more stable world environment based on democratic values, must play an active role in creating peace, stability and prosperity in a country that has been burdened by more than 50 years of internal armed conflict. in this regard, all activities of both government institutions and the farc, as well as of external countries, involved in ending the conflict and creating the conditions for lasting peace, a democratic environment, the fight against poverty and the application of generally accepted international rules sanctioning the most serious crimes, are supported. i support the call for the member states of the european union to establish a mutual fund for the post-conflict period.
written. ‒ the eu supports the agreement reached between the parties to establish, after the signing of the final peace agreement, a truth, coexistence and non-recurrence commission as an independent and impartial extrajudicial mechanism to jointly compile a true historical account of what happened, as a peaceful future and the fulfilment of the rights of all victims can only be based on a true account of the past and the assumption of all responsibilities. the eu and colombia have enjoyed close economic and trade relations since 2013, governed by the trade agreement between colombia and peru and the eu and its member states, the ultimate objective of which is not only to strengthen economic ties between the parties concerned but also to establish partnerships that go beyond trade itself and thus contribute to the strengthening of peace, democracy and the well-being of their citizens. i supported the motion for a resolution because building a lasting and sustainable peace in colombia by ending the internal conflict, which has lasted for more than 50 years and has caused millions of victims, is of primary importance for colombia, but also for the european union and the international community, as reflected in the numerous declarations by various countries and regional and international organisations, including the european union, in support of the peace process.
written. ‒ considering that colombia, after 50 years of war that resulted in millions of victims, deserves to finally end the conflict and achieve lasting peace, i welcome the efforts made by the colombian authorities and the farc and all actors in the conflict to start negotiations to end the conflict and build a lasting peace. the european union is also contributing to this objective and that is why i have supported this european parliament resolution on support for the peace process in colombia. i believe that the european union must actively support efforts to ensure lasting peace in colombia, and pay attention to the protection of the rights of victims and their families. it is the protection of the individuals most affected by this devastating conflict that should be one of the foundations on which to build a lasting peace in colombia. i believe that the cessation of the conflict and the fulfillment of the agreed points will have a positive impact on colombian society. ending violence and building peace must be accompanied by fighting poverty, and i am therefore pleased that a historic agreement on comprehensive land reform was also reached, in which the state committed itself to giving land to the poor to use and cultivate. i believe deeply that agriculture is one of the keys to the recovery of the colombian population, which will ultimately contribute to both the prosperity and the economic development of the entire country.
written. ‒ i welcome the agreement to establish a special jurisdiction for peace, which in colombia, for the first time after decades of conflict, lays the foundations for a stable and sustainable peace within the colombian people, namely between the colombian government and the farc. this resolution is only the crowning achievement of the european union's support and efforts to help develop peace, stability and democracy in colombia. i also regard as important the part of the text of the resolution which calls on the member states of the union to establish a mutual fund to support the implementation of this peace agreement. it is also important that the agreement includes a balanced understanding of the need for clemency on the one hand, and for punishing those responsible on the other. in the light of the conflicts in the former yugoslavia and my own political experience with the delicate situation in bosnia and herzegovina, i would like to stress in particular the importance of two aspects of peace for colombia: the establishment of a commission for the establishment of truth, coexistence and non-recurrence and balanced social and economic development throughout the country. facing the past and establishing the truth are essential elements that can ensure transitional justice. at the same time, sustainable peace is possible only when all groups in society are equal and protected from deprivation.
written. ‒ after several attempts to launch a peace process in colombia, the current peace talks with the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc), initiated by colombian president santos, are very promising. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement, including the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement, the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement. however, it is important to note that the most difficult part of the entire peace process is yet to come, and it involves the implementation of agreements, which will of course be slowed down by many obstacles. the eu is an important part of this peace process, particularly as it has shown a strong willingness to offer assistance through the creation of a post-conflict support fund. the eu has committed eur 26 million to colombia, the largest part of which, eur 21 million, will be allocated to a programme whose primary objective is to help colombia overcome social and economic disadvantages in marginalised and conflict-affected regions. i fully support the high representative's decision to appoint eamon gilmore, a former deputy prime minister and foreign minister who was directly involved in the northern ireland peace process, as the eu envoy for the peace process in colombia.
‒ the eu and colombia have enjoyed close economic and trade relations since 2013, governed by the trade agreement between colombia and peru and the eu and its member states, the ultimate objective of which is not only to strengthen economic ties between the parties involved but also to establish partnerships that go beyond trade itself and thus contribute to the strengthening of peace, democracy and the well-being of their citizens. the eu has also agreed to extend the visa waiver for colombian citizens to include the citizens of the republic of colombia. building a lasting and sustainable peace in colombia by ending the internal conflict that has lasted for more than 50 years and has caused millions of victims is important first and foremost for colombia, but also for the european union and the international community, as reflected in numerous declarations by various countries and regional and international organisations, including the european union, in support of the peace process. i welcome the agreement reached on 23 september 2015 between the government of colombia and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (fuerzas armadas revolucionarias de colombia farc) on the creation of a specialized jurisdiction for peace, which satisfactorily addresses the main and most difficult issue in the negotiations, and welcome the joint decision to set a deadline of six months for the signing of a final peace agreement before 23 march 2016.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the peace process in colombia. progress is evident in many areas of government and the functioning of society. the european union is the cradle of democracy, tolerance and solidarity and as such supports systematically and financially many of the world's peace processes. colombia has unfortunately been part of these peace processes because of problems within the country, but it is encouraging to see that many positive steps have been made. positive developments are also visible in other latin american countries, and colombia has become a regional example. much more effort is needed to solve the accumulated problems. the eu will continue to support the peace process in colombia.
written. ‒ establishing peace between the warring parties is a long and difficult process, and it has been going on for too long in colombia. the key points of the agreement between the rebels and the colombian government are encouraging in the direction of establishing peace and resuming normal life for the citizens. compensation for victims, establishing the true facts of the conflict, finding the missing and guaranteeing security for the victims of the conflict, but also for all other citizens, are key steps that should lead to the establishment of peaceful and normal coexistence. in the hope that a final peace agreement will indeed be signed in march this year, i have supported this report.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam vice-president, in my minute and a half i will be looking more at the situation in ukraine, and my colleagues gahler and štetina will be talking more about moldova and georgia. especially today about moldova where there was a vote of confidence, but i also hear certain protests that are happening in the moldovan parliament right now. today's topic 'association agreement' is extremely pertinent and timely. the entry into force of the eu-ukraine free trade agreement was the result of lengthy negotiations, but also of insufficient assurances from russia that the agreement would have certain negative consequences for it. unfortunately, we've seen the countermeasures russia has taken and the damage to trade. i think the eu should help ukraine in this situation. i also expect the commission to come forward very soon with a concrete legislative proposal on further visa liberalisation for ukrainian citizens, because that is what our ukrainian friends are expecting two years after maidan. thirdly, we need to continue to support security in the implementation of the minsk agreements, decentralisation and strong implementation of all commitments and association agreements where we as the parliamentary association committee give strong support to both the council and the commission in this process. finally, we want the forthcoming referendum in the netherlands in april to be conducted in a way that allows for a positive outcome and the entry into force of the association agreement.
madam president, in the first year of application of this agreement, georgia's exports to the eu increased by 15% and moldova's by as much as 62%. we expect an increase in exports from ukraine. however, as with other trade agreements, i believe that free trade must be accompanied by the free movement of people. the conditions are met and i believe there is no reason to maintain the visa regime for ukraine and georgia. the eu should help the eastern partnership countries, not only declaratively and politically, but also economically, with the implementation of the agreement being strictly monitored. but, of course, the key point is the eu's attitude towards russia. russia is in conflict with all three countries whether it's the annexation of crimea, the occupation of abkhazia and south ossetia or when it comes to transnistria. but regardless of the sanctions, a trilateral eu-ukraine-russia dialogue is needed. i hope that the upcoming referendum in the netherlands will not make ukraine's already difficult european path more difficult.
madam president, i strongly support this agreement with georgia, moldova and ukraine for the simple reason that these countries, these peoples, all their citizens, are entitled to a european perspective. so i think you've done a good job, commissioner hahn. you have done a good job in our eastern neighbourhood and i believe that this perspective that is opening up for the citizens of georgia, moldova and ukraine will be exploited. however, the prospect that is opening up must, of course, be used to introduce genuine european values into these countries. and not just for them, but for us and our credibility that these agreements are not misunderstood, because they are not against russia or any other country, but for the benefit of the citizens of georgia, moldova and ukraine and democracy on the european continent.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, commissioner, on behalf of the alde group, i fully support the signing and early entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of kosovo and i also expect the signing of the framework agreement on kosovo's participation in european union programmes to take place soon. kosovo is a country facing internal difficulties, instability in an equally unstable region. it should be noted that two countries in the area of southeast europe, serbia and bosnia and herzegovina, have not recognized kosovo. there are a number of open, mutual issues, some political forces are unwilling, they do not recognize de facto, covertly or not, the countries in which they live, they are hinting at border changes that in that space probably or almost certainly would not pass without new conflicts. it is therefore important that this agreement is fully implemented in a very ambitious manner. it's not just an economic agreement, it's an agreement that involves building democratic institutions, building the whole of society, strengthening the judiciary, so it's very important that these components of this agreement are used very ambitiously and very committed. it is in the interest of the european union. it is also in the interest of the citizens of kosovo because only in this way will we get kosovo which will be able to apply for membership in the european union very soon and thus join the other countries of the region in such a way that, with the help of this path towards the european union, we will get a country that will be stable and a region that will be stable because it is an area that is located within the european union, and of course the interest of the european union, and not only the citizens of kosovo and other countries, is that this process of accession to the european union be as high quality as possible and as fast as possible.
madam president, i welcome the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo after less than a year of negotiations. as head of the delegation for relations with kosovo, i believe that the european parliament will give its consent to its conclusion tomorrow. it is a kind of recognition of kosovo's commitment to full membership and a european future as key objectives. at the same time, the process of establishing contractual relations with the western balkan countries has been completed. this agreement is an important step as it can create opportunities for investment, growth and financial development through the application of european standards and european union law. but further progress will depend on the constructive cooperation of all political actors, which is not yet the case. unfortunately, the regional problem of obstruction of opposition in parliament and violent reaction of the authorities is happening again. the ugly scenes we have witnessed recently are truly inappropriate for a country with european aspirations. the fight against terrorism and radicalisation, measures to reduce the number of illegal migrants and asylum seekers in the eu, but also work to bring down the high unemployment rate, which is a key prerequisite for the success of these efforts, need to be continued. i hope that the stabilisation and association agreement, as the first treaty between kosovo and the european union, will be the impetus for so many institutional and legislative reforms that kosovo needs to adopt and implement. it would, of course, be great if the youngest european country on this path could also receive the full support of europe as soon as possible.
madam president, the efforts made by the kosovo authorities to get this agreement signed are the best guarantee of kosovo's european prospects. it is a young democracy with many challenges and serious tasks ahead, and it is extremely important that the authorities are truly committed to the process of euro-atlantic integration. this process is a big test for the state of kosovo, but also for the european union which must show leadership and the optimal level of the common vision of the member states when it comes to our european backyard. in the context of kosovo, i am thinking above all of international recognition. how sincere are we really towards kosovo when it comes to their european perspective if some of us still do not even acknowledge the existence of this country? the stabilisation and association agreement is neither the first nor the most important step on kosovo's european path. this key step is international recognition by all member states and i hereby call on those who have not yet recognised kosovo to finally do so.
written. i've already said that i'll open the biggest champagne when the last balkan country becomes a member of the eu. it's probably going to be kosovo. today is the start of the kosovo marathon towards the eu. i will celebrate because i believe that the membership of all balkan countries in the eu will bring peace and stability, after many centuries, to all the citizens of the balkans. we must make it clear to the citizens of kosovo that the extremism that is emerging will not contribute to the europeanization of kosovo. it is necessary to make clear that kosovo must establish partnership relations with serbia and, in particular, create mechanisms to protect the serb community in kosovo. for these reasons, i support everything that prime ministers vucic and rama are doing at the moment. it is a great premise for the long-term stabilization of the balkans. i also call on the five eu countries that have not recognised kosovo to do so in the interests of peace in europe.
mr. president, the murders, the torture, the persecution, the banning of christian symbols, the destruction of churches... christians in the middle east are faced with a single choice: remain christian and risk their lives, or renounce christianity in order to survive. the crime of all crimes is being committed against christians. but do christians have to completely disappear from the middle east to agree that isis is genocidal? before world war i, there were 20 percent christians in the middle east. today, it's only 4%. in the last 10 years, the number of christians in iraq has fallen from 1.4 million to about 300,000, while in syria it has fallen from 1.25 million to 500,000. there is no more than one of the 45 christian churches in mosul. about 140 churches have been destroyed in syria. the oldest christian monastery in iraq survived 1,400 years to become a pile of dust. in central syria, a 5th-century monastery was bulldozed. christians are being killed and persecuted with the intent of destroying an entire religion. how else to understand isis's warning: "we will take your rome, destroy your crosses and imprison your women. if we fail, they will succeed our children and our children's children and sell your children into slavery. those are isis words. christians are the most persecuted religion in the world. they're being genocided. let's have the courage to admit it and finally do something to stop this terrible crime. (the speaker took the floor)
mr president, madam high representative, following the terrorist attacks in paris last year, the french minister of defence invoked for the first time in history article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union and asked all member states for 'all the help and support in their power' in the wake of an 'armed attack on french territory'. many misinterpret this part of the lisbon treaty as a sort of pendant to article 5 of the north atlantic treaty, which, in the event of an attack on one member, obliges all the others to come to its aid. the european partners can practically not refuse the french request because it would not be solidarity. and many did. it is true that france can be helped in many ways and that support need not be military. but even more acutely, many questions about the internal security of the european union go beyond the protection of national states. the best response would be for the common security and defence policy to cease being the weakest link in european integration. the proposal for a common defence force first came to light in 2014, when we heard that the european union could save between €21 billion and €60 billion by increasing the synergy of defence policies and introducing a common defence system. however, the development of a common security and defence policy very often raises more questions than it answers. perhaps it is appropriate to start from the fact that it is not unified even among the general administrations of the european commission.
mr president, ms mogherini, following the brutal terrorist attack in paris, france has decided to invoke the mutual defence clause of article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union for the first time, thereby putting the spotlight on the readiness of the european union and the member states to put into practice the provisions that the treaty of lisbon makes possible for us. i saw this choice as a way of emphasising above all bilateral cooperation and the contribution of the member states, as evidenced by the information on the strong commitment of a number of member states to help france, and to relieve france of certain other important military operations around the world. it is up to us to see how, on the basis of the resolution and today's debate, we can strengthen mechanisms for continued cooperation involving the eu institutions in the context of the broader efforts that you, the high representative, are working on this year, namely the development of a global strategy for the european union's foreign, security and defence policy. in this context, i am interested in how we will put the implementation of article 42 (7) in the context of our efforts to make the european union more credible in the field of defence, bearing in mind both articles 222 and 5 of the north atlantic treaty and article 51 of the charter of the united nations. the defence action plan and the defence white paper are therefore certainly one of the priorities we will have for the next six months and during the dutch presidency.
mr president, i believe it is clear to everyone that this terrorist threat cannot be eliminated by any single member state alone and that we need a joint coordinated approach. france needs our help and we must give it to it, not because we are obliged by article 42.7 of the treaty on european union, but because it is right and in the interest of all of us. but i'm not sure that activating the mutual defense clause is the best way to do it because it acknowledges that france is the victim of an armed aggression that can only be carried out by another country. so we would be effectively giving the islamic state state statehood, which is completely contrary to our approach so far. despite the efforts of terrorists to procure the hallmarks of statehood, the islamic state should continue to be treated exclusively as a terrorist organization. i therefore consider that the activation of the mutual defence article is not in the interest of the union and its allies, which in no way precludes the necessary assistance of the member states to france on a voluntary basis.
mr president, i support what mr preda has said and it would indeed be a pity if the european people's party club had to withhold support for this resolution because of the unbalanced text when it comes to the middle east process. because otherwise this resolution has some really good, quality parts. i'll highlight paragraph 9 of the resolution, which deals with the increasingly frequent revision of constitutions in developing countries, particularly in africa, in order for governing structures there to circumvent the constitutional limitations on presidential term limits. such actions often result in civil unrest, violence. we have discussed this in this house on several occasions, for example when we had the resolution on burundi. but that's not the only example. unfortunately, we can observe a trend of regression in the process of democratization in many african countries, which unfortunately also leads to systematic violations of human rights. it is true that elections are held in these countries, but it is not uncommon for the ruling party to win all elections with more than 80% of the vote. in addition to the european institutions, our european political groups should take greater care of this, in cooperation with such african parties and movements. the importance of good governance is something that the un recognizes in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, especially with sdg 16, and i think that's what should be the priority of our foreign development policy and therefore the priority of the work of the un human rights council.
the question is, how do you get a blue card? mr. marias, did you know that such an informal group existed before, so nothing new happened? and secondly, what does this have to do with what you said about the subject we're discussing today?
blue-card question. – (due to a technical problem the speaker agreed to ask the question in english) you said many things and i agree with you, but do you agree with me that terrorism is a universal threat? we also have terrorism inside europe – you remember what happened in northern ireland, in germany, in italy, in norway or in other countries in europe. that is our european problem – it is european terrorism. we are not speaking only and just about the terrorists who are coming into europe. i think that terrorism is a universal threat for us and that we have to combat all types of terrorism. do you agree with me?
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. since you've accepted my "blue card" i'll say it in italian so you can understand me more easily. does it not seem hypocritical to you that she should come into the chamber at this moment, a short while ago, and then leave immediately afterwards? because i am here every day from morning to evening and she comes here, as does your president salvini, says that there is no one in the chamber and then leaves. this is hypocrisy. do you agree with me?
mr. president, 2015 was marked by terrorist attacks by the islamic state and its sympathizers around the world, and according to the latest intelligence from the intelligence community, 2016 will unfortunately be no more peaceful. such news should not be treated with panic, but neither should it be treated with indifference. europe needs to step up security measures to protect its citizens, and our security forces must have their hands wide open to deal in a timely manner with anyone who deals with extremists and terrorists on our soil. interstate cooperation has never been more important, and we need to make the most of it. this means that the competent services of the member states should be in coordination with each other without being blocked in the communication channel by supranational bodies with undefined powers. these are the moments when we must be operational, fast and efficient for the safety of our citizens, and everything else is secondary. i expect that future decisions of the council and the commission on this subject will be guided by this.
madam president, the european union is australia's second largest trading partner and new zealand's third largest. on the other hand, australia is the union's 16th trading partner, and new zealand is only 51. bilateral trade with australia is about 40 billion euros and shows a growing trend with a very positive balance. the commission notes that the union industry has not been able to obtain sufficient sales volumes to cover its costs of production. the free trade agreement is a logical step, but it's more than that. following the signing of the trans-pacific partnership agreement between the us and the pacific rim countries, and the growing commercial presence of china in that part of the world, the union is forced to strengthen its partnership with these countries if it is to remain a global player. if negotiations are opened, i hope they will be much more transparent than those on ttip so that citizens can get a real insight in time into all the positive, but also potentially negative effects of the agreement.
written. ‒ i support this statement on the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo. i consider this agreement to be a very important first formal step in the eu accession process, and it will create opportunities for investment, growth, business development, good governance through the application of european standards and approximation to eu law.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part, giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i support the integration of all countries of south east europe into the european union and the ssp is an important first formal step in the process of eu accession and european integration of the republic of kosovo. the agreement is a key document in the stabilisation and association process, sets out rights and obligations, and provides an impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. the ssp establishes a contractual relationship that ensures political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation in a number of sectors including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights.
‒ the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo forms a framework for a free market and addresses issues related to common policies, economic objectives and regional cooperation. furthermore, the agreement provides kosovo with one of the vital steps forward towards accession to the european union. the agreement covers a wide range of issues, from democratic principles and human rights to cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, the environment and legal issues. the saa also promotes the rule of law and the democratic values of the european union. furthermore, the saa is an important step towards the formal accession process and a key document in the stabilisation and accession process of kosovo. the stabilisation and association agreement is the basis of rights and obligations for the implementation and institutionalisation of the necessary reforms. i supported the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo, as it provides a space for the development of democratic principles and key elements of the european single market. the agreement is an opportunity to further stimulate the necessary reforms in kosovo to secure democratic institutions and values, and to become a competitive market both in the region and in the eu. in conclusion, the agreement is an important step towards kosovo's eu accession and better regional cooperation.
written. ‒ i believe that cooperation between the european union and kosovo is of the utmost importance, not only for the countries mentioned, but also for those surrounding countries that have not yet entered into eu accession negotiations. i support this proposal because it encourages the opening up of new markets, thereby providing many opportunities to create much-needed jobs and contributing to the establishment or improvement of existing good neighbourly relations. the agreement can also help stabilise relations between kosovo and serbia, which could be an important step in further development. i believe that the aim of this proposal is to have a positive impact, i.e. to encourage positive changes in the daily lives of the citizens of kosovo, thereby opening up opportunities for them to benefit from the european union programmes. also one of the important changes that will make it easier for kosovo citizens to move through the european union is the abolition of visas. the adoption of this proposal would be a very important step in the integration of the republic of kosovo into the european union, opening up cooperation in many areas and integrating the republic of kosovo into various european union programmes to help it economically.
written. ‒ i am very pleased that kosovo signed the stabilisation and association agreement in november last year after less than a year of negotiations. i hope that the european parliament will give its consent to the conclusion of this agreement by voting tomorrow, which will allow its implementation to officially begin. it is a kind of reward for kosovo's commitment to full membership and a european future. at the same time, the process of establishing contractual relations with the western balkan countries has been completed. this agreement is an important step in the eu accession process and kosovo's european integration path. it can create opportunities for investment, growth and financial development through the application of european standards and approximation to eu law. but further progress will depend on the commitment and constructive cooperation of all political actors, which is not the case now. once again, unfortunately, the 'regional' problem of opposition participation in parliament is being realised. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp). i hope that the stabilisation and association agreement, as the first kosovo-eu treaty, will serve as a stimulus for the many institutional and legislative reforms that kosovo needs to adopt and implement, and that the youngest european state will receive united european support along the way.
written. ‒ the eu and kosovo share a strong bond of values and are equally keen to further strengthen their relationship by establishing a close and lasting relationship based on shared interests and reciprocity. such cooperation further enables kosovo to strengthen and expand its relations with the european union. the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo establishes a relationship that ensures increased political dialogue, stronger trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it is important to note that the agreement also creates a number of opportunities for investment, growth and business development, while at the same time establishing good governance through the application of european standards and approximation to european laws, including the framework for the establishment of a free trade area. furthermore, it is important to emphasise the fact that the agreement creates opportunities for increased contacts between people and experts in sectors such as education, culture, environment and the fight against crime and smuggling. for all the reasons set out above, i support the proposal of mr ulrike lunacek and his proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part.
‒ the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo was signed on 27 october in strasbourg and ratified by the national assembly of the republic of kosovo on 2 november 2015. the agreement establishes a relationship that ensures political dialogue, better trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it covers a number of sectors, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, establishing a framework for cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, environment, justice and home affairs. the ssp also contains provisions aimed at promoting european standards in areas such as competition, procurement, intellectual property, consumer protection, all with the aim of establishing a free trade area. the agreement creates rights as well as obligations and provides a strong impetus for reform. the ssp will create opportunities for investment, growth, business development, while strengthening good governance through the application of european standards and approximation to eu law. the ssp is a very important step in the process of eu accession and european integration for the republic of kosovo and i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ the exhaust gas scandal is in fact an attack on the health and consumer rights of citizens and the economy of the european union and its member states. the release of nitrous oxide was staged, which is particularly harmful to the liver, lungs and blood counts of citizens. they were cheated by selling more expensive cars that were supposedly less harmful to the environment. the eu must do its part to find ways of restoring confidence in the european automotive industry. this committee is necessary and i support the decision.
written. ‒ i voted for the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector because i believe that the committee should start work as soon as possible in order to collect and analyse information and research to give concrete and effective results. i consider the proposal for a decision appointing the members of the committee concerned to be balanced and in line with the political forces within parliament and therefore support it.
written. ‒ this proposal was made in the light of last year's revelation of a fraudulent emissions data scandal. it is necessary to improve market surveillance and to allow for european supervision of car certification in order to ensure compliance with european safety, environmental and production rules. i supported the appointment of members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector because it is necessary to address all the weaknesses of the current automotive certification system. i think it is necessary to ensure the independence of the emissions test as well as the greater involvement of the european parliament in order to achieve a better exchange of information between national authorities.
written. ‒ i support the appointment of 45 colleagues to the committee of inquiry into breaches of eu emission measurement rules in the automotive sector. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's external action in the field of civil aviation security. the commission shall submit its interim report within six months of the date of entry into force of this agreement and the final report within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this agreement. this is a follow-up to the parliamentary initiative following the adoption of a resolution in october calling for a thorough investigation into the role and responsibility of the commission and the member states, and encouraging them to disclose all they know about the violations that have occurred and the actions taken. i hope that the committee will justify the trust shown in order to maintain the transparency and information of consumers, but also the trust in the institutions that represent them.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the role of the 45-member automotive emissions board of inquiry will be to monitor the effectiveness of emission tests in the automotive sector and to check whether member states have imposed effective and proportionate penalties for infringements of regulation (ec) no 715/2007, including the use of prohibited devices, refusal to provide access to information and falsification of test results. the commission shall also verify that member states are taking appropriate and effective action to strengthen the explicit prohibition of non-approved devices. the commission shall assess the effectiveness of the measures taken to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised by the use of the vehicle. the council should collect and analyse information to establish whether the commission and the member states have evidence of the use of the defence mechanisms issued by the environmental protection agency and whether they have evidence of the use of prohibited co2 emission test equipment. the commission shall submit its final report within 12 months of the start of its work. that's why i endorsed the report.
written. ‒ i supported the appointment of members of the commission of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector for alleged violations and irregularities in the application of union legislation on the measurement of emissions of harmful gases. in view of the manipulation of emissions data and the recent events that have shaken the big german car manufacturer (vw), the european union must restore citizens' confidence in its decisions and establish more effective control and enforcement of legal remedies to prevent fraud. the commission has also received a complaint from the united states environmental protection agency (epa) concerning the use of a device to interfere with the operation of the pipeline. the european union ultimately has to protect the consumer as the end user.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine, which represent a milestone for these countries on their path towards european integration. this is particularly important given the fact that georgia, moldova and ukraine are affected by long-standing conflicts aimed at undermining their sovereignty and territorial integrity. the agreement aims to strengthen the political, economic and social relations between georgia, moldova, ukraine and the eu, and to contribute to the improvement of the lives of citizens in areas such as education, employment, justice, and the raising of the standard of living and security of citizens. the efforts of these countries to bring their national regulations closer to eu standards and to highlight the role that civil society can play in raising public awareness and adopting the necessary reforms are welcomed. in the case of ukraine, welcomes the vote on the first reading of constitutional amendments related to decentralisation and expresses concern about deep-rooted corruption. in the case of georgia, it recalls the need to strengthen the rule of law and to separate the state institutions from the influence of the political forces currently in power, and in the case of moldova, it expresses concern about the political crisis that has gripped the country since the fall of the government formed in july 2015, which is damaging to the european perspective.
written. ‒ the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with these countries support territorial integrity and democratic institutions. the agreements also call on the russian federation to abandon the occupation of crimea and to cease direct or indirect involvement in the conflict in ukraine, as well as in the currently frozen conflicts in moldova and georgia. i supported the motion for a resolution because it is necessary to ensure freedom of the press, freedom of speech, free elections and democratic institutions in these countries, which these agreements make possible.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on the association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade areas with georgia, moldova and ukraine because i believe that the european union should actively work towards political and economic rapprochement with all the eastern partnership countries, and in particular with these three countries with which we have already made significant progress. while these countries need to make additional efforts to implement the agreed reforms, it is important that we send them a clear and unambiguous message now that their path to european integration is open. i also believe that the european union must take additional measures to ensure the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of georgia, moldova and ukraine, which are seriously undermined. without a solution to these problems, it will be impossible in the long term to create a stable region that can actively cooperate with the european union.
written. ‒ in the first 12 months of the implementation of the dcfta, georgia's exports to the eu increased by 15% and moldova's by as much as 62%. the commission has also received comments from the hankook group. but as with other trade agreements, i believe that free trade must be accompanied by the free movement of people. the conditions are met and there is no reason not to lift the visa for citizens of ukraine and georgia. the european union needs, in addition to declaratory political, economic assistance to the eastern partnership countries, with strictly supervised implementation. but the key to the relationship with the eastern partnership countries is the eu's relationship with russia. russia is in conflict with all three countries, whether it's the annexation of crimea, the occupation of abkhazia and south ossetia or the transnistrian issue. following the eu sanctions against russia and russian sanctions against ukraine following the implementation of this agreement, the eu-ukraine-russia trilateral dialogue is highly needed and necessary. in addition to relations with russia, particular attention should be paid to the situation in moldova where the upcoming elections could have important implications for the orientation of foreign policy. in conclusion, i hope that the upcoming referendum in the netherlands will not make ukraine's already difficult european path more difficult.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine have ratified association agreements covering the deep and comprehensive free trade areas, thereby committing to closer political and economic integration with the european union and to implementing ambitious reforms in a number of areas, including democracy, good governance, the rule of law and human rights. the eu recognises the european aspirations of these three countries and emphasises the added value of the association agreements in their reform processes. i welcome the efforts of georgia, moldova and ukraine to approximate their national legislation to eu standards on the basis of the commitments under the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. in this context, i support the multi-layered financial and technical assistance provided by the european union and other financial institutions to ukraine and georgia, but i also want to stress that the eu should provide financial support to all its partners, provided they implement concrete reforms.
written. ‒ the creation of a transparent business and investment environment and appropriate regulatory reforms to allow companies and investors that meet eu standards to trade freely within the eu market, as well as to allow eu companies trade access to the markets of georgia, moldova and ukraine is desirable and necessary. these three eastern partnership countries have already signed and ratified the dcfta, committing themselves to implementing deep political and economic reforms in their countries in exchange for free trade with the european union. each of these three countries faces serious problems, whether it is a political crisis, a struggle for the independence of the judiciary, the media or the occupation of its territory. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine, including the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine. this agreement will further deepen free trade between the european union and these three countries, and stronger political and economic ties will contribute to greater stability and prosperity across the european continent.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on the mutual defence clause (article 42 (7) teu) because i believe that, following the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november 2015, a strong solidarity of all member states with france is needed to provide it with support and assistance. the eu's regional and global foreign policy-making should become part of the eu's global strategy and there is a need to enhance the exchange of information and strengthen relevant eu instruments. one of the union's priorities is to combat international terrorism in order to strengthen european security and defence, and i therefore strongly support this clause.
written. ‒ following last year's terrorist attack in paris, after which france formally invoked article 42 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament considers that additional safeguards in the eu are needed. in particular, measures should be taken to control the movement of cold weapons and explosive devices. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the resolution also stresses the need to further strengthen rules and regulations on the procurement of small arms and light weapons. i supported the motion for a resolution to reduce the possibility of terrorist attacks and to strengthen security in the eu. the enhanced cooperation between member states on security matters can only improve the overall security situation.
written. ‒ taking into account the terrorist attacks in paris in november 2015, as well as the threat posed by daesh to the security of eu citizens, i warmly welcome the resolution on the mutual defence clause. i believe that the eu must show solidarity with all its member states in its fight against terrorism. in this regard, i support the development of a political framework that should allow the creation of effective instruments necessary to deal with terrorist and other security threats. preventing every form of violent extremism at its source should be a priority in our fight against terrorism. we must recognise that eu citizens are among the terrorists, which is why it is very important to take appropriate measures to control the movement of weapons and persons as soon as possible. we need to encourage, establish and effectively implement a structured and continuous exchange of information between member states. at the same time, the eu must also become more actively involved in finding a peaceful solution to the conflicts in the middle east, which, as we have seen, have major consequences not only for the local population but also for eu citizens.
written. ‒ following the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november last year, the french minister of defence invoked for the first time in eu history article 42 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and, in the wake of an armed attack in france, asked all member states for 'all the help and support in their power'. many interpret this part of the lisbon treaty as a sort of pendant to article 5 of the north atlantic treaty, which obliges all member nations to come to the aid of an alliance member in the event of an attack. the european partners can practically not refuse the french request, because it would not be solidarity. and they all said yes. it is true that france can be helped in many ways and that support need not be military. but again and again, many questions are raised more acutely about the internal security of the european union, which goes beyond the protection of national states. the best response would be for the cap to cease being the weakest link in european integration.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ if a member state is attacked on its territory, the mutual defence clause obliges other countries to assist it by all available means in accordance with article 51 of the charter of the united nations. the union and its member states shall act jointly in a spirit of solidarity when a member state is the target of a terrorist attack or the victim of a natural or man-made disaster. the union shall aim to prevent terrorist threats to member states, to protect democratic institutions and the civilian population from possible attacks and to assist member states. the european council shall regularly assess the threats facing the union in order to enable the union and its member states to act effectively. the european union has become more involved in counter-terrorism cooperation as a result of the terrorist attacks in paris in november 2015. in this case, france invoked the mutual defence and solidarity clauses. this is the first time that a member state has invoked these clauses, and i therefore support it.
written. ‒ i support this declaration on the eu's priorities for the un human rights council in 2016. civil and political rights, economic and social rights, business and human rights, lgbt rights and so on are some of the areas where the eu must persevere and strengthen its influence as a global player. unfortunately, after a long time, radical groups that incite hatred and intolerance are also gaining strength in europe, so it is the eu's duty to fight for respect for human rights at all levels.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's priorities for the 2016 un human rights council, as i agree with the priorities set out in the following themes: the un human rights council, which emphasises that the members of the unhcr should be chosen from among states that respect human rights; civil and political rights, which highlights the problem of changing the constitution to extend political mandates; social and economic rights, the problem of rising poverty and in the field of business and human rights; migration and concerns about the biggest migrant crisis since the second world war; climate change and human rights, and support for the conclusions of the paris agreement; women's rights, children's rights, the fight against terrorism, democratization, integration of human rights into eu policies, and the priorities set out by the countries under the universal periodic review.
written. ‒ the motions for resolutions refer to the need to further confirm the relevance of certain items related to the un human rights council. in particular, they suggest that all human rights proposals should be implemented, with an emphasis on all forms of discrimination, xenophobia and similar intolerance. the resolution also stresses that member states should have zero tolerance for the death penalty. the resolutions also mention the importance of freedom of expression, religion and belief, and that all should enjoy human rights equally, with special emphasis on refugees. i supported the resolutions because i believe that it is always necessary to reaffirm the importance of human rights, without any form of discrimination.
written. ‒ i could not support this joint motion for a resolution on the european union's priorities for the 2016 un human rights council sessions as i consider that it does not adequately represent the eu's priorities. while i welcome most of the proposals contained in this joint resolution and are properly geared towards preserving the eu's core values, including the protection of human rights around the world, i nevertheless consider that some parts of the resolution go beyond the scope of the un human rights council. the council is responsible for the promotion and protection of human rights and for addressing situations of human rights violations. the council's responsibility is the same when we talk about the situation in the middle east. the council can and must promote the protection of human rights in conflict areas by advocating the cessation of violence and the establishment of peace. however, resolving the middle east conflict, while dependent on respect for human rights, is not exclusive. the establishment of peace in the middle east goes far beyond the purview of the un human rights council. the middle east conflict is full of specificities and as such requires a specific approach. the eu must condemn all the crimes committed and act as a mediator and promoter of dialogue aimed at establishing peace and a sustainable solution for the benefit of all people living in the territory of israel and the palestinian authority.
written. ‒ the resolution should highlight the situation in 2016 in georgia, israel/palestine, lebanon, mauritania, myanmar, nepal, oman, rwanda, south sudan, venezuela as well as in countries where the human rights situation is critical such as syria, burundi, yemen and saudi arabia. the resolution reiterates the importance of the eu's active and consistent engagement in all un human rights mechanisms, and in particular in the third committee of the un general assembly and the un human rights council, and acknowledges the efforts of the eeas, the eu embassies in new york and geneva and the member states to increase eu coherence on human rights issues at the un level through timely and substantive consultations and the sending of a 'unanimous message'. the resolution also encourages the eu to make greater efforts to express its views, inter alia, by strengthening the increasing practice of launching interregional initiatives and participating in and taking a leading role in the formulation of resolutions, and underlines the need for greater visibility of eu action in multilateral fora. i fully agree with these calls and guidelines which is why i supported the said resolution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the lack of respect for human rights and the lack of legitimate democratic participation leads to instability, state failure, humanitarian crises and armed conflict. most african countries have gone through a transition from an autocratic form of government to multi-party democracies. unfortunately, the latest trend is the decline of democratic standards in some countries. i would therefore like to highlight paragraph 9 of the resolution, which deals with the increasing revision of constitutions in developing countries to circumvent the limitations on presidential terms imposed by governing structures, and such actions often result in civil unrest and violence. such conduct is contrary to article 21 of the universal declaration of human rights, which states that the will of the people is the basis of the authority of the state and is expressed by periodic genuine elections through universal and equal suffrage. also, in countries where elections are held, the legitimacy of the elections is questionable, since the ruling structure has won them 100 percent. i want to point out that corruption, tax evasion, mismanagement of public goods, closed government institutions also contribute to human rights violations because they reduce the available funds for investing in much-needed public services such as education, basic health services and other social infrastructure, and thus prolong the poverty of the population.
written. ‒ due to the high level of international instability and wars in africa, the middle east and on european soil, human rights are under serious threat. but many countries that do not respect the rights set out in this resolution will be treated as equals by the european union during the discussion of these rights at the un human rights council. while i support certain parts of the resolution, i believe it is too focused on increasing the rights of various minority groups, while still neglecting the rights of the individual, as the most vulnerable minority. , that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support this report on the activities of the committee on petitions during 2014. i think it is a good report which the committee has worked on further by putting amendments to it, of which 12 compromise amendments have been adopted by all the groups in the committee.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014 because it is precisely this committee that is the contact point for citizens, which promotes european citizenship, while also strengthening the visibility and credibility of the european institutions, and is in contact every year with thousands of citizens who submit petitions and their legitimate complaints. better cooperation with the institutions at european, national and regional level, as well as with other bodies of key importance for the area concerned, is certainly needed if the issues raised in the petition are to be resolved swiftly. although there is a lot of room for improvement in the work of the committee, i certainly consider it to be of great importance to the people of the eu and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
written. ‒ the 2009 lisbon treaty guarantees the right of all citizens and residents of the european union to be involved in the protection and promotion of their rights. the number of applications is still modest, and even decreasing, compared to the total population of the european union, as shown by the fact that almost 6% fewer applications were received in 2014 compared to 2013. the big problem is processing the application. such delays are not acceptable because the aim is to ensure a high-quality service, such an approach also undermines the credibility of the european institutions. i did not support the proposal on the activities of the committee on petitions during 2014 by lidie joanna geringer de oedenberg because of the whole range of ambiguities that arise in the functioning of the committee, as indicated by the very high percentage (39,4%) of inadmissible petitions received. the court of justice has already held that the principle of proportionality is not applicable to the interpretation of the rules of procedure.
written. ‒ i believe it is essential to strengthen cooperation with national parliaments and their respective committees, as well as with member state governments, and to encourage the competent authorities of the member states to transpose and implement eu legislation in a fully transparent manner. the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the defence are respected and that the rights of the defence are protected. i believe in the importance of working with the commission and the member states to ensure that citizens' rights are protected more effectively and transparently and to encourage the presence of member states' representatives at meetings. i also consider it important that representatives of the council and the commission be present at meetings and hearings of the committee where the content of the issues under discussion requires the involvement of those institutions. i support this report because i consider it essential that the committee on petitions strengthen cooperation with parliament's other committees by seeking their views on petitions, inviting their members to debates relating to their areas of competence and, as a committee giving opinions on the implementation of certain reports and in particular on the correct transmission and application of union law in the member states, by becoming more involved in their work.
written. ‒ all citizens or residents, whether natural or legal persons of the eu, have the right to make representations to the european parliament, with annual statistics showing that the highest number of representations relate to justice, fundamental rights, the environment and the internal market. in 2014, parliament received 2 714 submissions, which is 6% less than the 2 891 submissions received in 2013. of these, 29.1% were assessed as acceptable and followed up. the number of petitions received is modest compared to the total eu population, showing that most eu citizens are still unaware of their right to petition. i therefore join the calls for a joint approach by parliament, national parliaments and lower level authorities in the member states with the relevant appeal bodies in order to make it clear to citizens in a transparent manner at which level and to which bodies they can address their representations. the right to petition is a key element of participatory democracy, with the aim of addressing irregularities in the implementation of eu law, which is why i support the work of this committee and its activity report.
written. ‒ article 227 of the treaty of lisbon confirms the right of representation, which enables european citizens and anyone residing in the european union to approach the institutions in a simple manner in order to express their requests or objections. this right serves as one of the most important instruments for bringing european citizens closer to the institutions and the complete system of the european union. eu citizens use it to make representations in relevant areas such as fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market, health, consumer rights, animal welfare and many others. some examples of representations registered are: (1) the equitable life scandal, united kingdom, (2) the lyon-turin railway tunnel, (3) the incompatibility of the urbanisation law of valencia, spain, with eu law, (4) the m30 motorway project in madrid and (5) the european city guide: a resolution on fraudulent 'services societies'. the importance of this report lies in the fact that it invites the commission to respond to requests for an investigation within three months and to inform the committee on petitions of the development of infringements of the procedure directly related to the petitions. the report also calls on the member state authorities to participate more actively in the meetings of the committee on petitions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the presentation allows citizens to express their concerns about the operation of various policies, but also their concerns that are present in everyday life problems. the presentations also serve to encourage dialogue at all levels of society, and in particular at the political level. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. although some applications and their resolution remain open for several years, efforts should be made to improve the conditions for applications, that is to say, their implementation process, but also their resolution. the proposal is a collective demand of citizens and for that reason it is important to create better conditions more effectively, and i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ i voted against this report, even though i believe that the committee on citizens' representations is a very important link in the chain linking the eu institutions to citizens. the democratic process does not end with the declaration of the winner of an election, but it is important that the voice of citizens is heard at all times and that their problems and concerns are addressed in a timely manner. this is where the importance of the work of the nominations committee comes into play. but this report is trying to promote certain ideologies by using representations of citizens, and that is why i did not support it.
mr. president, i know you're working very hard to reach out to everyone in their own language. please, when addressing croatian representatives, don't use the word deputy, because it means deputy. that's not the right word, and it should be the lawyer. please refer to us as "counsel". i want to highlight the absurdity of this situation where people really wanted to protect themselves and others in anti-piracy, practically anti-terrorist work, and ended up getting hurt themselves. they've been hurt in the worst possible way so they're in jail today, maybe for five years if we don't succeed in our diplomatic efforts. the second point i wanted to make is that, for reasons of possible counterproductivity, we should omit the question of the italian marines from the title, because they are not mentioned at all in the resolution, so they are not in the text of the resolution. i don't think it's good to mention them at all, because they're being helped in other ways.
mr. president, there is a long list of anti-democratic actions by the ethiopian authorities. we regret that it's one of the poorest countries in the world, but on the other hand, that list includes the abuse of the anti-terrorism law in a way that uses that law to repress the opposition, the press, the public in general. everything that is done to minorities in ethiopia cannot be called democratic moves. it is also worth noting the fact that the so-called master plan for the development of addis ababa actually seeks to take land from the oromo region. so i call on the ethiopian authorities to engage with us and with the united nations so that we can continue to make the necessary donations to ethiopia because we want the best for this country and its people.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, north korea is a signatory to most international human rights treaties, which it routinely violates. so calling for the respect of security council resolutions, as well as our calls for the respect of the rules of international public order, will certainly not help. unfortunately, it's not going to help to call on china to do this with its influence over north korea, because china will do this in accordance with its interests, not in accordance with our calls. the only real solution is coordinated joint international diplomatic action, of course, which is missing because the neighboring countries of north korea have a hard time agreeing on it. nevertheless, i support this resolution and call on the european parliament and the european commission to monitor the human rights situation in north korea as well as the threat posed by north korea to international peace.
mr draghi, the measures you are taking are important and valuable, and we appreciate all the efforts to open up funding sources to european entrepreneurs, innovators and researchers. but of course, without fiscal policy measures, implementing reforms and raising competitiveness by investing in development, research and innovation, an economic miracle cannot be expected. economic growth of 1 or 2 percent in the long run means we're lagging behind. we must therefore do everything we can to open up sources of finance for riskier projects with high growth potential. european solidarity and the functioning of a single market with the same conditions for doing business are needed more than ever as part of achieving the same credit conditions and availability of sources of financing for entrepreneurs in all member states. therefore, as cautious as we need to be, we need to be swift and decisive in further establishing the banking union and the capital markets union, and we need to be innovative in finding new instruments to finance the economy.
mr president, commissioner, the trade and services agreement, negotiated by 23 partners, i.e. 50 countries, is today the most sensitive financial and most comprehensive trade agreement for the union. the services sector employs 68% of the workforce and in 2013 alone, trade in services generated a profit of eur 173 billion. the market for services has changed significantly with the development of the internet. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. at the same time, access to the european market is more liberal. small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly neglected by this disparity. but reciprocity must not be our only goal. we need to vigorously defend standards of worker protection, data protection and consumer rights. this is an opportunity to regulate globalization. the provisions of the agreement should be made publicly available. i am pleased that the report calls for the exclusion of all public services from the agreement, such as health and education, and that it leaves sufficient room for local government to regulate services and introduce safeguard measures where necessary.
mr president, i welcome the call to strengthen the role of the european parliament in the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements, as the current practice of negotiating away from the public eye is completely unacceptable. even good agreements are met with public resistance because citizens get the impression that something is being hidden from them. if we put them and their well-being first, and we should, transparency has to be high on our list of priorities. greater scope for democratic control, in a way, complicates the negotiations, but it's absolutely worth it. on the other hand, some ideological issues, such as the fight for gender equality, should not be burdened by such agreements. we must keep our focus, so we must focus on opening up foreign markets to european companies. we will not achieve this goal by moralizing and sharing lessons with the rest of the world, but by creating a legal and political framework that will allow our entrepreneurs easier access to yesterday's closed markets.
mr president, i support the negotiations that the commission is conducting on behalf of the european union, but i would like to stress the fact that this valuable and important instrument that we can adopt here in parliament will hardly gain support if the public is not informed, in all its details, of what is being negotiated and the whole process becomes much more public than it is. because it's extremely important that the citizens support what we're going to accept here. i want to emphasise the problem of roaming, the problem of e-commerce, i want to emphasise the need to protect workers, and i want to emphasise in particular the right of local and regional self-government to traditional services and all those specificities that subsidiarity brings. it was especially important that public services, health care and education were not included in this process, because i think then they would definitely lose public support. it's hard enough as it is, but i believe we'll find it easier if we involve the public.
madam president, according to the european commission's report on the economic benefits of the european network of protected areas natura 2000, it has been shown that success has been achieved in the conservation of beautiful species on the verge of extinction. in addition, investments in protected areas have provided direct employment for some 4,5 million people in the european union. for those who do not consider biodiversity conservation a problem, i must say that according to the eurobarometer survey of september 2015, over 80% of europeans expressed concern about the decline of biodiversity. 98% of eu citizens live within 20 km of a natura 2000 site. citizens need and want access to conserved, healthy nature and greenery close to their homes. but nature conservation must not be a barrier to local people and their activities, but a balance must be struck. in terms of land coverage of the natura 2000 network, croatia is at the very top of the european union and i want it to remain that way.
madam president, local units often have good ideas and prepare excellent innovative projects to ensure a better quality of life for citizens at more affordable prices. green urban transport, renewable energy, digitalisation and new smart services are just some of the projects they are preparing. the major problem in implementation is the lack of sources of funding and lack of information about the programmes from which projects could be financed. i call on the european commission, in cooperation with the member states, to introduce new means of communication and information that will bring union programmes, the new european fund for strategic investments, eib, ebrd and other european financial institutions' programmes closer to local units. most of the time, we hear from representatives that there are funds, but there are no well-structured projects. that is why, at least for the projects we have, we need to make it easier to access funding by providing better information.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you very much, mr. scholtes, for accepting the blue card. my question is whether you agree that the difference in the percentage of undeclared work that exists between member states, where some countries have 1.5 to 2%, and some countries even up to 30%, can be tackled more and more strongly at european level, by exchanging experiences, and even by creating an inspectorate at european union level that would be in charge of tackling such a problem?
mr president, we certainly need a new package of tax measures, and even more so the implementation of these measures and the willingness of the member states to harmonize tax rules and not leave room for interpretation and adjustment in individual cases. this package has three key components which are essential to implement if we are to make a significant breakthrough in preventing tax avoidance. first, coordination of activities between member states. second, tax transparency. and third, the elimination of double taxation. we do not want multinational corporations to create an additional tax burden by avoiding taxes on honestly paying businesses. finally, i have a question for commissioner moscovici. given that you've announced the introduction of the ccctb, i'm curious to know what additional measures you're trying to take to ensure that this path is successfully implemented and what obstacles you're encountering in doing so?
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on the union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code), as the proposal in question is limited to codification without substantive change. in a very important area such as the movement of persons, it is crucial to make european union law clearer and more accessible and to ensure its certainty. the european union must ensure that its legal acts are easier and more efficient to find and understand, and codification is moving in that direction. in this context, i also support the interinstitutional agreement which allows for an accelerated procedure for the rapid adoption of codified acts.
‒ the codification of regulation (ec) no 562/2006 on the schengen area lays down conditions, criteria and detailed rules on changes to border checks taking into account human rights and dignity. border control will continue to check individuals as before, but will also introduce additional checks to secure the eu's internal borders. additional checks will be carried out on persons in the so-called sis system. since only a fingerprint can truly identify a person, consolidation with the so-called vis system will be introduced also, when crossing the border, it will be mandatory to stamp the passport every time. the resolution calls for the possibility of reintroducing the eu's internal borders to be treated as an exception and a last resort. it is also necessary to ensure a common response to threats that may result from the closure of borders. the maximum period for closing the borders is 10 days, after which, if an extension is needed, it is necessary to obtain an eu-level authorisation. i supported the proposal to change the rules as it is necessary to ensure the internal security of the eu. the purpose of the change in regulation is to better manage border crossings in order to enhance security within the eu where there are no national borders. in view of the previous events and terrorist attacks, the need for additional security arises and for this reason i support the proposal.
written. ‒ i supported this report on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders, because i believe that the regulation of the schengen borders code will help to better control movement. i believe it is important to clearly define the parameters within which internal border controls can be reintroduced and that any border control should be approached with full professionalism, with particular respect for human dignity. it's important to have clear rules so that in any situation, whether it's a terrorist incident, a threat, a suspected organized crime or something else, you have a quick and clear response on the ground. such a reaction is only possible with the approach provided by this draft rule, from which it is immediately possible to see, without wasting time in interpreting the regulation, which reaction is appropriate in accordance with the european union regulations. as this proposal has a positive impact on very important issues of security for citizens of the european union and beyond, and as it clarifies some of the related regulations with a view to increasing efficiency in emergency situations, i fully support it.
written. ‒ i support the report on codification, i.e. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code), as the proposal fully preserves the content of the act being codified, in particular with regard to the agreement on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts. in situations where member states are unable to implement and enforce sufficiently the rules applicable to the movement of persons across borders, the union has the right and the power to adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union, without going beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the objective, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. the important point is that this proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts and does not make any substantive changes.
written. i support the report by my colleague, heidi hautala, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders. the common measures on the movement of persons across internal borders and border control at external borders should reflect the acquis of the european union incorporated into the framework of the european union, in particular the relevant provisions of the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 1985. border control is in the interest not only of the member state at whose external borders it is carried out, but also of all member states which have abolished internal border control. the borders should help to counter illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings and to prevent any threat to the internal security, public policy, public health and international relations of the member states. it is also necessary to provide for rules on the calculation of the authorised duration of short-term stays in the eu. the commission should be able to take into account the specific needs of the beneficiary countries and the specific needs of the beneficiaries of the visa waiver. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the exercise of the right of establishment and the conditions for the exercise of the right of establishment and the conditions for the exercise of the right of establishment. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. for the reasons i've given, i agree with the report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, and in particular point 4 thereof, the consultative working party consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met on 9 and 26 february and 15 april 2015 to examine, inter alia, the above proposal submitted by the commission. since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, i have supported the proposal.
written. ‒ although, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes, it is clear that the amendment in the recital is an important change aimed at empowering the european union with regard to border management. as i support respect for the sovereignty and integrity of each member state of the european union, i cannot support another step towards the idea of establishing a common border police of the european union, that is, a step towards a federal union. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as this gives consent to accept the amendments to the protocol. reducing and controlling anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury can greatly help to improve air quality and, accordingly, to reduce their harmful impact on the environment and human health. in this context, it is necessary to reduce emissions from industrial sources, from waste incineration and during the combustion process. i therefore believe that a coordinated approach is needed at international level and i believe that the ratification of the amendments in question will improve the level of protection and strengthen eu legislation in the area concerned.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation of mep giovanni la vie on protecting human health and ecosystems from the harmful effects of air pollution. these problems must be addressed internationally, since air pollutants can travel thousands of miles before they become a sediment. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is the first international legally binding instrument in this field. it was signed in 1979 and came into force in 1983, and it is designed to protect the environment from air pollution. the convention has been extended to date with eight protocols identifying concrete measures to be taken by parties to reduce their emissions of pollutants. the 1998 amendment to the protocol is largely covered by eu legislation and will set national emission ceilings for certain substances through the new directive. the amended protocol sets stricter emission limit values for certain substances and an annual national inventory will be conducted including emissions for individual air pollutants, covering inter alia emissions of pops, including pahs, pcdd/pcdfs, hcbs and pcbs.
written. ‒ i supported the proposed amendment of the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, which is intended to protect the environment from air pollution. the european union already has this area in its legal heritage, governed by the ambient air quality and cleaner air for europe directive and the arsenic, cadmium, mercury, nickel and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in outer air directive, which together with the industrial emissions directive and a package of other related regulations form a coherent package that tightly controls heavy metal pollution in the european union. i am pleased that conventions and protocols as international law mechanisms follow eu policy and allow further progress to be made in the fight for a cleaner and healthier planet at global level. the adoption of the amendments to the protocol is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. in this context, i once again welcome this legislative resolution that has just been adopted.
written. ‒ i support the proposed amendments to the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. the convention and the protocol are a good example of the ever-increasing cooperation of states in solving problems which are transnational in nature and require transnational solutions. the amendment itself is already largely covered by eu legislation and aims to provide for stricter limit values for certain emissions and more flexible transition conditions for those who accept this amendment by the end of 2019. croatia ratified the heavy metals protocol back in 2007 and has since adopted all key regulations in line with union regulations setting limits on emissions of pollutants into the air from stationary sources, the quality of liquid petroleum fuels, air quality, waste battery management and chemicals management.
written. i support the recommendation of my colleague, mr giovanni la vie, on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. the first legally binding convention in this area, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, is designed to protect the environment from air pollution. the problems caused by air pollution must be addressed internationally, since air pollutants can travel thousands of miles before settling. the 1998 amendment to the protocol is already largely covered by eu law and will be further transposed through a new directive which will set updated national emission ceilings for certain pollutants in the atmosphere and provide for annual national emission inventories which should, inter alia, cover emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury. the ratification of the amendment to the protocol will be a very important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ in 1979, the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was concluded with the aim of limiting and preventing air pollution in order to prevent negative effects on people and the environment. already, it was proved that air pollutants can travel up to several thousand kilometers before being deposited. in 1998, the convention was extended to include the protocol on heavy metals and the protocol on persistent organic pollutants. the heavy metals protocol obliges signatory states to monitor emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, to phase out leaded petrol and to reduce the level of mercury in alkaline batteries. the protocol on persistent organic pollutants allows for the reduction or elimination of persistent pollutants and the regulation of pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), dioxins, furans and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. the amendment to the heavy metals protocol explicitly sets stricter emission limit values for dust (particulate matter dispersed in the gaseous phase) and monitoring of emission values for lead, cadmium and mercury on an annual basis. i supported the european parliament resolution on the amendment of the heavy metals protocol. i therefore also supported the amendment of the protocol on persistent organic pollutants, as it reports annually on emissions of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), confirming that emissions are lower than in the reference year and creating new limit values for dioxins and furans.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is designed to protect the environment from air pollution. several studies conducted between 1972 and 1977 showed that air pollutants can travel several thousand miles before settling. therefore, the problems caused by air pollution should be addressed at the international level. the convention is the first international legally binding instrument in this field. the convention has created a framework for controlling and reducing the adverse health and environmental impacts of transboundary air pollution. the amendment of the protocol is already largely covered by eu legislation, but the new directive will establish updated national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and provide the conditions for annual national emission inventories covering emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury. as indicated, the amendment is fully in line with existing eu legislation and ratification of the amendment will be a step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
written. ‒ i supported the amendment of the heavy metals protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. studies have shown that air pollutants can travel thousands of miles before they become a sediment, and i believe that the problem of air pollution should be addressed internationally. increased emissions of heavy metals into the atmosphere have adverse effects on human health, the plant and animal world, and some metals have been shown or suspected to be carcinogenic. i am of the opinion that the amendment to the heavy metals protocol will establish stricter dust emission limits from large stationary sources, reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the air and reduce emissions from industrial sources in the incineration and waste incineration processes. i consider this an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health from transboundary air pollution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants of 1998 to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution of 1979, as this gives consent to the amendment of the protocol. i believe it is crucial to pay greater attention to the growing air pollution to protect human health and the environment. however, this major challenge needs to be addressed by coordinated efforts and at international level, as it has been established that pollutants can be carried by air for thousands of kilometres before being deposited. in this context, cross-border pollution requires specific measures and effective action to control and reduce harm to human health and the environment. the ratification of the amendments in question will therefore improve the level of protection and strengthen eu legislation in the area concerned.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation of mep la vie to amend the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, which was the first international legally binding instrument in this area when it was signed in 1979. since its entry into force in 1983, the convention has been extended to include eight protocols identifying concrete measures to be taken by parties to reduce their emissions of pollutants. the 1998 amendment to the protocol has been largely incorporated into eu legislation. the new directive sets national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and provides for annual national emission inventories which should cover, inter alia, emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury.
written. ‒ i supported the proposed amendment of the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, intended to protect the environment from air pollution. the european union already has this area in its legal acquis, regulated by the ambient air quality and clean air for europe directives, but also by the industrial emissions directive and a package of other related regulations, which constitutes a coherent package that tightly controls environmental pollution by persistent organic pollutants in the european union. it is those rules that ensure that operators of large stationary emission sources use best available techniques (bat), that waste incinerators operate in accordance with the prescribed emission limit values and take effective measures to control those emissions from mobile sources, and that persistent organic pollutants are transported and disposed of in a prescribed manner once they become waste. i am pleased that conventions and protocols as international law mechanisms follow eu policy and allow further progress to be made in the fight for a cleaner and healthier planet at global level. the adoption of the amendments to the protocol is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution by persistent organic pollutants. in this regard, i once again welcome the legislative resolution that has just been adopted.
written. ‒ i support the amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. it is a protocol to an important convention, which was the first international legally binding instrument in this field of protection. the amendments to the protocol include seven new substances, changes to the rules on implementation and on the restriction of certain emissions, and the inclusion of polychlorinated biphenyl. the ratification of these amendments will ensure a higher level of protection of the environment and human health from organic pollutants. the act on the implementation of regulation (ec) no 850/2004 on persistent organic pollutants in croatia allows for the direct application of these rules. i hope that its implementation will also ensure the protection of human health and the environment in the croatian border areas around slavonski brod, which are exposed to cross-border pollution.
written. i agree with the recommendation of my colleague giovanni la vie on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. this convention is the first legally binding convention of its kind and entered into force in 1983. it is intended to protect the environment from air pollution and to create a framework for controlling and reducing damage to human health and the environment caused by long-range transboundary air pollution. the amended 1998 protocol is already largely covered by eu law and will be further transposed through a revision of the directive on national emission ceilings for certain pollutants. the amended protocol also sets out (1) stricter dust emission limit values for certain major stationary sources and (2) flexible transitional arrangements that will be beneficial for those member states that will accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is designed to protect the environment from air pollution. several studies conducted between 1972 and 1977 showed that air pollutants can travel several thousand miles before settling. therefore, the problems caused by air pollution should be addressed at the international level. the convention is the first international legally binding instrument in this field. the convention has created a framework for controlling and reducing the adverse health and environmental impacts of transboundary air pollution. the amendment of the protocol is already largely covered by eu legislation, but the new directive will establish updated national emission ceilings for individual air pollutants and provide conditions for annual national emission inventories covering emissions of pops, including pahs, pcdd/pcdfs, hcbs and pcbs. as indicated, the amendment is fully in line with existing eu legislation and ratification of the amendment will be a step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
written. ‒ i supported the amendment of the protocol on persistent organic pollutants because the amendments are fully in line with european union legislation and the updated emission limits for certain atmospheric pollutants will provide tools to address and monitor progress in emission control. the amendment to the protocol will improve the monitoring and help reduce or eliminate releases, emissions and spills of persistent organic pollutants. i believe that the amendments will ultimately lead to a reduction in air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment with a particular focus on long-range transboundary air pollution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision authorising eurojust to conclude the eurojust-ukraine cooperation agreement (11592/2015 c8-0300/2015 2015/0810 ((cns)) as i support the proposal for a eurojust-ukraine cooperation agreement to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption and as there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with ukraine in order to combat transnational crime and strengthen judicial cooperation in europe.
written. ‒ the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine is of particular importance, especially in the fight against crime and corruption. the draft agreement contains provisions relating to operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of liaison officers by ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. i supported the report by mrs kaufmann because transnational cooperation between security agencies is essential in a world where crime and terrorism are on the rise.
written. ‒ i supported this report on the draft council implementing decision authorising eurojust to conclude a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine, as it aims to increase legislative cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. ukraine is an important partner here because of its geostrategic position, with which the european union will, through eurojust, better coordinate future investigations and prosecutions of cross-border and organised crime. i believe that cooperation between ukraine and eurojust will improve the effectiveness of investigative and judicial authorities both in ukraine and in all eu member states in cases of terrorism, trafficking in human beings, illicit drug trafficking, fraud and money laundering, in order to bring perpetrators of organised cross-border crime to justice quickly and effectively. the security of people, both eu citizens and those outside the eu, must come first, as must the protection and survival of democratic principles and fundamental freedoms and human rights, which are greatly threatened by the existence of organised crime, in particular terrorism.
written. ‒ i support the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. in particular, this concerns operational judicial cooperation between the two parties, primarily in the form of the exchange of prosecutors and information including personal data, which was also given the green light by the joint supervisory body. furthermore, the problems related to the independence of the competent authorities in ukraine have been satisfactorily resolved by the transfer of these tasks to the ombudsman as a fully independent body. this agreement strengthens the fight against organised crime and terrorism, but also judicial cooperation in europe in general, which is particularly important in the case of ukraine in view of the complex political situation in that country.
written. i fully support the report by sylvia-yvonne kaufmann on the draft council implementing decision authorising eurojust to conclude the eurojust-ukraine cooperation agreement. the cooperation between eurojust and ukraine is of significant importance, in particular with regard to the serious crime and corruption census. the cooperation agreement encourages exactly this type of cooperation and contains detailed provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the transfer of the ukrainian liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of data. article 26a (2) of the eurojust decision provides that the council is to approve such agreements with third states or international organisations. article 39 (1) (a) of the lisbon treaty provides that parliament must be consulted on such authorisation. the operational need for eurojust to cooperate with ukraine to combat transnational crime and strengthen judicial cooperation in europe is clear. having said that, i agree with the above report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ this decision proposes to approve the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. the agreement contains detailed provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a ukrainian liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information. the commission has also concluded that the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine is necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the law on the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data in the union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eurojust-ukraine cooperation agreement as i believe there is a clear need for operational cooperation between ukraine and eurojust to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and improve judicial cooperation in europe. i believe that mutual cooperation will improve the efficiency of national, investigative and judicial authorities dealing with cases of serious forms of cross-border and organised crime, such as terrorism, trafficking in human beings, illicit drug trafficking, fraud and money laundering. eurojust shall also provide support to competent authorities in order to improve the efficiency of investigations and prosecutions. in view of the fact that i believe that the conclusion of the eurojust cooperation agreement with ukraine will improve cooperation between competent authorities, in particular by facilitating the implementation of international mutual legal assistance and the execution of the european arrest warrant, i have supported the agreement.
written. ‒ i support the draft cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision authorising eurojust to conclude a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro (11596/2015 c8-0299/2015 2015/0812 ((cns))), as i support the proposal for a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption, and as there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with montenegro with the aim of combating transnational crime and strengthening judicial cooperation in europe.
written. ‒ this agreement concerns cooperation between eurojust and montenegro with the aim of strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious, organised crime and terrorism. the draft cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro contains provisions relating to operational cooperation and provides for the transfer of the montenegrin liaison prosecutor to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and to improve judicial cooperation in europe, there is a clear operational need to achieve cooperation. for the reasons set out above, i supported the report by ms griesbeck on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro.
written. ‒ i supported the council decision authorising eurojust to conclude a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro, as it aims to increase legislative cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. this draft agreement contains elements concerning operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the exchange of liaison officers and the exchange of information, including personal data, which i consider to be very important in the prevention of serious crime. i believe that this kind of cooperation plays a key role in the security of not only the citizens of the european union, but also those outside it. building good neighbourly relations between states also opens up the possibility of creating new forms of cooperation, whether in security, economic or some other third dimension. therefore, i welcome this form of cooperation because it brings only positive changes in the daily lives of citizens, especially in the field of security and freedom, which i consider to be one of the fundamental rights of every person. for all the reasons stated above, this report on the draft implementing council decision authorising eurojust to conclude the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro enjoys my full support.
written. ‒ in the light of the progress of integration and cooperation between montenegro and the european union, which i actively support through my political action, but also in support of a more decisive fight against serious crime and terrorism, i support the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. in particular, this concerns operational cooperation between the two parties, primarily in the form of the exchange of prosecutors and information including personal data, which was also given the green light by the joint supervisory body. while the emphasis is on cooperation in the field of terrorism, it should be stressed that eurojust can also act in a number of other areas such as drug trafficking, money laundering, human smuggling, etc., which will make this cooperation more comprehensive and deserves our support.
the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro has as its main objective the enhancement of judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the cooperation between eurojust and montenegro is of considerable importance, in particular in the fight against serious crime and corruption. the draft council implementing decision authorising eurojust to conclude the eurojust-montenegro cooperation agreement contains detailed provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, including the exchange of personal data. the european union and montenegro shall cooperate in the fight against transnational crime and in the fight against organised crime. for the reasons set out above, i fully support the report by ms nathalie griesbeck on the draft council implementing decision authorising eurojust to conclude the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ this decision proposes to approve the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions relating to operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the liaison of the prosecutor of montenegro with eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. in order to strengthen the fight against crime and improve judicial cooperation in europe, there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with montenegro and i have therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report authorising eurojust to conclude a cooperation agreement with montenegro. as the objectives of eurojust are to encourage and improve cooperation between member states' authorities in the field of investigation and prosecution, to improve cooperation between member states' authorities in the field of mutual legal assistance and the enforcement of extradition requests, and to ensure effective investigations and prosecutions, i believe that this agreement will be a catalyst in the fight against serious cross-border organised crime and terrorism. as eurojust provides logistical support, i believe that it can organise or assist coordination meetings between judicial authorities of different countries in order to solve some legal or practical problems. i also support the call for the swift and effective detection and prosecution of perpetrators of transnational organised crime.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, on the ground that it concerns an infringement of the speed limit in a populated area unrelated to the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament. in addition, there is no doubt that the request was made in order to inflict political damage on mr jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, and this is in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation to waive the immunity of my colleague robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz because the criminal prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of the duties of my colleague iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament. the commission has not provided any evidence that the member concerned has been subject to a criminal prosecution. this is about respecting the rules of the member state of which mr siekierski comes, as stipulated in article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
written. ‒ robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz is accused of exceeding the speed limit in a populated area. since the alleged infringement is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament, and since in this case parliament has not found evidence of a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the request was made with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis), i have supported the report.
written. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of the polish mep robert jarsola iwaszkiewicz. the polish authorities have also provided information on the number of road accidents in the area of the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the area of the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the area of the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the area of the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the area of the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the area of the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the area of the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the area of the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the area of the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the city of warsaw, the number of road accidents in the city of warsaw, and the number of road accidents in the city of warsaw. since the alleged offence is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, i consider that there is no reason to assume that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned. given that the attorney general of the republic of poland has forwarded to the president of parliament the request of the polish road traffic inspectorate to waive the immunity of mr robert jarsola iwaszkiewicz, i consider it appropriate to waive the immunity of the member and to allow him to be given a fair trial.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, because this is in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and because it has been established that there is no reasonable doubt that the waiver of immunity is being made with the aim of causing political damage, but that it is an infringement of the speed limit in a built-up area. such a vote is also the position of the alde group.
written. ‒ in august 2015, the prosecutor general's office of poland sent a request for authorisation of legal acts against the member of the european parliament, robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, for a traffic offence for exceeding the speed limit. specifically, representative iwaszkiewicz was driving at 29 km/h over the posted speed limit in a populated area where the posted speed limit is 50 km/h. since the attorney admitted that he was the driver of the car at the time of the offense, he is considered responsible for the act committed. the commission has also requested the polish authorities to provide additional information on the case. i supported the request for waiver of immunity, given that the member was not in the exercise of his parliamentary duties at the time of the offence.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation to waive the immunity of my colleague robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz because the criminal prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of the duties of my colleague iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament. the commission has not provided any evidence that the member concerned has been subject to a criminal prosecution. this is about respecting the rules of the member state of which mr iwaszkiewic comes from, as stipulated in article 9 of protocol no. 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
written. ‒ robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz is accused of exceeding the speed limit in a populated area. since the alleged infringement is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament, and since in this case parliament has not found evidence of a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the request was made with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis), i have supported the report.
written. ‒ i supported the request to waive the immunity of the polish mep robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, who is accused of committing a speeding offence in a populated area on 21 august 2014. as in the previous report, i consider that there is insufficient serious and well-founded suspicion that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned, since the alleged offence is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament. as the attorney general of the republic of poland has forwarded the request of the polish highway traffic inspectorate to authorise the taking of legal action against the representative of mr robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, as in the previous case, i consider it correct to waive the representative's immunity and to allow him to be given a fair and impartial trial.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of florian philippot, which decides not to waive the immunity, as one of the duties of a member of the european parliament is to express opinions on the foreign policy of the eu and third countries. the immunity of members shall also apply to opinions expressed by a member, for example in the media, which are connected with his parliamentary activities. therefore, i consider that this decision is appropriate and in accordance with the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
written. ‒ the french court has requested the waiver of the immunity of the representative of philippot for the purposes of criminal proceedings brought in a country outside the european union. representative philippot has been accused by the qatari government of defaming the country by suggesting that they were funding terrorism. article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of investigation, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed in the performance of their duties. i did not support the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr philipot because, when expressing publicly opinions on the foreign policy of the european union or a non-member country, members of the european parliament are acting in the course of their official duties.
written. - i support the recommendation to waive the immunity of my colleague, representative florian philippot, for a statement he made on television. the public expression of opinions on the foreign policy of the european union and third countries shall be an official duty of members of the european parliament. moreover, the judgment of the european court of human rights refers to the provisions of the french system which protect the representatives of the people in the exercise of their duties, which date back to 1789 and derive from respect for the expression of the will of the people and the need for elected representatives in a democratic state to exercise their mandate freely without fear of legal action or interference by the executive or judicial authorities, and such absolute immunity of a member of the european parliament applies not only to opinions expressed by a member in the official sessions of the parliament but also to those expressed elsewhere, for example in the media. therefore, there is no legal basis to waive the immunity of mr. philippot.
written. ‒ the government of a third country, namely qatar, accused mp florian philippot of slandering qatar in a radio broadcast on 9 january 2015 and a television broadcast on 19 january 2015 by insinuating that qatar finances terrorism. the french judicial authorities have requested the waiver of the immunity of the member of the european parliament, florian philippot, in relation to this criminal proceedings. as public expression of opinion on the foreign policy of the european union and third countries is an official duty of a member of the european parliament, i supported the report.
written. ‒ the competent french authorities have forwarded to the european parliament a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot, who is accused by the state of qatar of public defamation during the transmission of a radio programme on 9 january 2015 and a television programme on 19 january 2015, when he insinuated that that country was financing terrorism. given that mr philippot has been charged with expressing his opinion, i consider that there is reason to believe, or a sufficiently well-founded and serious suspicion, that the proceedings were brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned. since the absolute immunity of members of the european parliament does not only apply to opinions expressed by a member in the official sessions of parliament but also to those expressed elsewhere, for example in the media, where there is a link between the opinions expressed and parliamentary duties, i supported the report which does not waive the immunity of mr philippot.
written. ‒ i support the report on the establishment of a european platform on the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. this european platform is the first step in cooperation between member states in the fight against undeclared work. unregistered work is often synonymous with unfair competition, while unregistered workers often work in hazardous conditions and for lower pay. i therefore believe that we have an obligation to tackle this problem, because black labour is one of the biggest problems in the economies and economies of the member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council establishing a european platform to improve cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work, as this mitigates the negative consequences of undeclared work, such as exploitation and poor working and living conditions for millions of workers across the european union. accordingly, the resulting unfair competition significantly harms the single market and weakens member states' budgets and social protection systems. in this context, coordinated action by the social partners, member states, eu institutions and stakeholders is needed to effectively overcome challenges and shortcomings. in addition to the need to prevent and deter undeclared work, it is necessary to regulate such work. the platform should therefore become a place for gathering and sharing information and good practices and a tool for implementing and launching concrete actions in this sector.
‒ the european parliament, in its resolution of 14 january 2014 on effective labour inspection as a strategy to improve working conditions in europe, supported the commission's initiative to establish a platform and called for improved cooperation at union level to tackle undeclared work. the grey economy is highly present, representing more than 18% of the union's gdp, and its presence varies significantly between member states, ranging from less than 8% to more than 30% of gdp. the main objective of the platform is to contribute to the efforts of the member states and the union institutions to successfully tackle the complex problem of undeclared work and the regulation of jobs and their multiple effects and consequences, and to encourage and promote the work of declaration. i supported the report by mr pirinsky because undeclared work has serious consequences for workers who have to accept unsafe and sometimes dangerous working conditions, much lower wages and significantly reduced protection provided by labour and social protection legislation, thus denying these workers adequate social benefits, pension rights and access to healthcare.
written. ‒ the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european platform to improve cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work is an important step in the final tackling of undeclared work in the european union. the commission notes that the tax base of the greek economy is not comparable to that of the other member states. about two thirds of these amounts relate to undeclared work. so the problem is serious, and i'm glad that people are starting to think more seriously about how to solve it. the establishment of a platform composed of the most important stakeholders involved in tackling undeclared work or the regulation of jobs will certainly contribute to better implementation of union and national law. i believe that the platform will improve the exchange of experience and good practices in preventing illegality. the commission should also be able to provide information to the member states on the implementation of the union's labour inspection system. i welcome the adoption of this report on the proposal for a decision establishing the european platform and i was happy to support it.
written. ‒ i support this proposal to establish a european platform against undeclared work as a first step in preventing undeclared work which causes multiple losses. for workers, undeclared work means: lower pension rights, limited access to health care, poor working conditions and possible violation of employment rights. in the case of companies, it leads to unfair competition because companies that do not report their workers have an unfair advantage. for governments, it represents lost revenue from taxes and social contributions. it is estimated that undeclared work accounts for almost 20% of gdp at eu level, with croatia's figure even higher. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against undeclared work, in particular through the use of the european platform for the prevention of and fight against undeclared work. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu-us strategy for the prevention of illegal immigration and the fight against organised crime. i also hope that the system for exercising the rights of registered workers in another member state will be corrected, which has not always been the case so far. for example, croatian migrant day labourers who have been working in slovenia for years face difficulties in exercising their rights. i hope that this question will be on the agenda as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ undocumented work has serious budgetary consequences due to reduced tax and social contributions revenues. strengthening cooperation between member states at eu level is necessary to help member states prevent and deter undeclared work in an effective and efficient manner. the objectives of the platform will be to facilitate the exchange of best practices and information, to provide an eu-level framework for the development of expertise and analysis, and to improve operational coordination of action between the enforcement authorities of the member states. the platform should draw on all relevant sources of information, in particular studies, bilateral agreements between member states and multilateral cooperation projects, and create synergies between existing instruments and structures at eu level in order to achieve the objective of deterring and preventing undeclared work to the greatest extent possible, and therefore supported the report itself.
written. ‒ i supported the establishment of the european platform to improve cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work as i believe it is a strong political message as it shows our commitment to combating undeclared work which harms workers, undermines the rule of law and distorts market relations. but i'm of the opinion that setting up the platforms alone won't solve anything. we need to understand the reasons for non-reporting so that we can approach this problem constructively. i believe there are those who do not declare work because they like to do business outside the law and cheat people and the state, but croatian experience says that most employers who do not declare workers do so because of the unbearable tax burden on wages. the only way we can drastically reduce the size of the economy is to make cheating no longer worthwhile. as long as taxes are so high that employers would rather pay the fine than pay them, our fight to operate legally throughout the union will be unsuccessful.
written. ‒ biodiversity, which is the unique combination of ecosystems, habitats, species and genes on earth, has in itself immense value that needs to be protected for the benefit of future generations. that is why we must be concerned about the steady loss of biodiversity in europe. however, scientific evidence suggests that europe's nature would be in a much worse state if it were not for the positive impacts of the eu birds and habitats directive. in conclusion, i support this report and the revision of the biodiversity strategy.
written. ‒ i only voted for the mid-term review report of the eu biodiversity strategy because i believe that this unique combination of ecosystems, habitats, species and genes, called biodiversity, on which humans are highly dependent, needs to be protected for the benefit of future generations. agriculture has a major role to play in this, and it has great goals to achieve in order to be effective in producing the amount of food needed to feed the world's growing population. sustainable and responsible tillage, livestock farming, the diversity of plant species and varieties, the increased use of biomass as an energy source, the transition to a green economy are just some of the key contributions to the conservation of biodiversity. the fact is that around a quarter of europe's wildlife is threatened with extinction and that many ecosystems are being disrupted, causing serious social and economic damage to the eu. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the new rules on the implementation of union law.
written. ‒ in europe, approximately a quarter of wild species are threatened with extinction, and many ecosystems have been destroyed, causing serious social and economic damage to the european union. the loss of biodiversity represents a huge cost to society and therefore investing in biodiversity is essential to maintain a favourable socio-economic situation. the eu must support developing countries in their efforts to conserve biodiversity. the eu needs to raise awareness of the importance of biodiversity, as people depend on all the benefits of ecosystems such as clean water, clean air and other natural resources. the commission and the member states must give greater priority to the achievement of the 2020 biodiversity targets, as the targets set will not be achieved without additional and sustained efforts. i supported the report by mr demesmaeker because the unique diversity of ecosystems, habitats and species is of great value to the eu. i believe that a more qualitative approach to biodiversity funding is needed, which would involve more funds, and it is very important to link the different funding instruments. the parties shall cooperate to promote the sustainable management of the world's forests by enhancing ecological processes, biodiversity and forest productivity, and taking into account the rights of indigenous peoples in those areas.
written. ‒ the european nature protection policy so far has proven successful, both in terms of achieving the objectives of conservation of species and habitats and in terms of benefits to society through measurable and non-measurable benefits. europe's nature conservation system has been credited with saving many endangered species, such as the iberian lynx, the bald eagle and the brown bear. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the conservation of fishery resources and the management of the resources of the union. the protection of nature must not be a burden and a hindrance to local people and farmers, but must become an added value. it also consumes higher prices of agricultural products that come from distinctive areas of conservation. that is why i believe that such an approach, such as the origin labelling of products, represents what we want: synergy and coherence between the different european policies. in view of all this, i supported the resolution adopted today and believe that it would not be good to change the existing legislative framework, but at the same time i expect its more consistent implementation at member state level in order to achieve the desired objectives by 2020.
written. ‒ i support the environment, public health and safety committee's mid-term review report on the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy which clearly shows the current state of play with the implementation of the strategy and correctly points to areas where it is already becoming clear that the strategy will not be able to be delivered. we are now halfway through the strategy and the figures are as follows: the eu's ecological footprint is twice the eu's biocapacity. only 23% of species and 16% of habitats are in favourable conditions. significant progress has been made in the areas of fisheries and invasive alien species, but other targets are lacking, the attacks are problematic agriculture and forestry. the most relevant legislation consists of the environmental directives. the implementation of the birds and habitats directive is an absolute prerequisite for achieving a biodiversity strategy as a whole. these directives have been a milestone in european environmental policy, having created the single natura 2000 network, which now covers over 26 000 protected areas. however, the full potential of nature 2000 has not yet been reached, but is only expected. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
written. ‒ biodiversity is the key to the biological balance of all life on earth. it is important to emphasise that biodiversity has a great economic and social value. the effects of climate change are a cause for caution and a great deal of concern because the balance in this area is being irreversibly upset. as a green/ees representative, i supported a european parliament resolution calling for stronger action to prevent possible serious consequences for biodiversity. i believe that the emphasis should be on solutions closely linked to nature conservation with the aim of promoting the importance of the forestry and agricultural sectors, which would not only guarantee the security of supply of quality and varied food, but would also have a positive impact on mitigating climate change and preventing a global temperature increase of 2 degrees celsius by restoring ecosystems. the loss of biodiversity also represents an economic cost for society, as one in six jobs in the european union is directly dependent on the state of biodiversity. member states should invest more and step up efforts to stimulate innovation by creating green jobs, which would contribute to reducing unemployment, increasing biodiversity and preventing major climate change.
written. ‒ biodiversity itself has enormous value to be protected for the benefit of future generations, and biodiversity is also beneficial for human health and has social and economic value. the socioeconomic opportunity cost of not meeting the biodiversity headline target is estimated at eur 50 billion per year. biodiversity policies should fully comply with the principle of subsidiarity in order to fully respect regional differences in landscapes and habitats. i therefore welcome the mid-term review of the implementation of the biodiversity strategy and the 'state of nature' and 'soer 2015' reports and would stress the strategic importance of these reports for achieving the eu's biodiversity objectives.
written. ‒ i supported the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy. since biodiversity constitutes a unique combination of ecosystems, habitats, species and genetic diversity on earth on which humans are highly dependent, and since it has in itself immense value that needs to be protected for the benefit of future generations, i express my serious concern about the continuing loss of biodiversity. i also believe that nature and economic development are not mutually exclusive and that sustainable economic growth should be encouraged and proactive measures taken to protect and better manage the environment. i believe that through the proposed urban planning initiatives, carefully considered land use and adequate protection of the natura 2000 network can be ensured, as well as the preservation of open spaces, in particular by choosing livestock farming as an alternative to abandonment of agricultural land.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you, mrs. macova, for accepting this blue card. i listened carefully to you when you spoke of the need for donations and aid to turkey. however, the fact is that king abdullah today declared that jordan will no longer be able to accept refugees. the fact is that lebanon also hosts over a million refugees, and jordan has 1,270,000. do you think it's necessary, when it comes to these countries, as well as turkey, to fully involve the united nations in order to really have everything under control?
mr president, i think we are in a dilemma where we might ask ourselves: is quality or quantity important? if we think we're going to solve the gender equality issue by creating as many legislative frameworks as possible and constantly producing new strategies, then we can propose them every day. but if we really care about eliminating inequality between women and men, then we have to care about the quality of these proposals. our priority must be the implementation and evaluation of existing instruments, in particular those promoting women's rights to education, decent work and equal pay, health insurance, and the reduction of violence against women. i do not think that the lack of a new strategy or working document issued by the commission undermines the efforts made by the commission in the area of gender equality. i am pleased that the commission has taken the necessary steps to create the work-life balance that currently represents the biggest obstacle for women to decide to make a career move while also taking care of their family. i must remind you that the directive on women on boards is still pending, and that on maternity leave has been withdrawn to the detriment of working mothers. we haven't agreed on the basics, and we're looking to create some new strategies. we have to go step by step, tackle priorities, analyse existing legislation, and only then create new regulation.
madam president, experience has shown that even when we have a strategy on gender equality, the european union's progress in this field is very small. so it is particularly worrying that we now have no strategy on gender equality at all, let alone other important documents such as the strategy on combating violence against women. as many as 90% of eu citizens consider this strategy necessary. the commission has put their wishes into a working document. it's a slap in the face to all women in the european union. there are big changes happening in the member states. in my country, croatia, there is a debate going on right now about assisted reproduction, about the law on civil partnerships, about a woman's right to an abortion. yesterday, many citizens took to the streets to demand a society of solidarity, tolerance and equality. the european union must set an example of upholding the values of tolerance and equality, especially in these turbulent times. i therefore call on the commission to adopt a new strategy on gender equality as soon as possible, in line with the guidelines adopted by the european parliament. we would expect that in 2016, some things are going to be taken for granted. but unfortunately, when it comes to gender equality, it turns out that we're always one step ahead, two steps back. gender equality strategy should not be something to be discussed, but our obligation.
madam president, it is unfortunate that in 2016 we are still forced to debate this issue. despite a century of struggle, women are still the victims of discrimination and various forms of violence on a daily basis. i'm glad there's an awareness of this problem, and i believe there's a will to solve it. but i'm afraid we've been tapping on the spot for some time because our methods are not effective. the legislature and the executive at member state level have not yet found ways to drastically punish open discrimination against women, and at european level, unfortunately, rules and gender quotas are being imposed on private companies instead of quality awareness-raising campaigns. we have come to the conclusion that politicians take it upon themselves to regulate even family relationships, and such immature and harmful attempts will justifiably create resistance among the people. we must always remember, this battle is won in the minds and hearts, not on paper. let us act accordingly and we shall be successful.
madam president, i welcome this decision of the court of justice of the european union, because the commission has failed to honour its obligations on an issue of the utmost importance to the public health and well-being of our citizens. we have two major problems with endocrine disruptors. one is that they have a very negative effect on our health, affecting the human hormonal system, and the other is that we are surrounded by them in our daily lives, in our clothing, in the packaging of food and drink, in the plastics that we use in our daily lives. there are many theories about endocrine disruptors and the european commission's inaction, some of which are completely unrealistic. but if the commission ignores this court ruling, its credibility will be severely damaged. i therefore call on the european commission to respect its own regulations, to respect the decision of the court of justice of the european union and finally to adopt criteria for dealing with endocrine disruptors. they must be scientifically sound, feasible and, most importantly, serve the public health.
mr president, solidarity and responsibility are the two main words. i agree with my colleague, without it we cannot move forward. it would be a historic mistake if the european union failed to manage this process, to manage this crisis. so we must have solidarity, but above all responsibility. i agree with the question asked whether we would be better off living individually in our national states or together in the european union. we have chosen the european union, we want to live in the union and we must solve our problems together. that's the key, together. we have the regulations, we have all the regulations, however, the regulations are unfortunately not enforced. so we need to apply everything we have already adopted, first of all i am thinking here of greece, we need to strengthen greece, we need to strengthen the european coast guard we have been talking about, we need to strengthen the agency and that is the key to the problem. we need to figure out how to replenish the fund for turkey. it's something we've been talking about for months, but we're not getting anywhere. and so, i appeal to all of us to take that into account. we wouldn't be talking about brexit at all here today. brexit would not have happened at all if there hadn't been migration, if there hadn't been what's happening in the world. so, english to be or not to be! i hope that we are getting closer to answering that question, after these negotiations between mr cameron, the commission and the council and we expect the council to take the lead and to make a decision, not to remain locked into their narrow national egos.
written. the upcoming session will discuss the migrant crisis and brexit. it is clear that both these issues are in many ways a question of the future of the european union. while, on the one hand, the democratic decision is in the hands of the citizens of the united kingdom, the migration crisis must be urgently addressed by the member states together with the european commission. i want to believe that the majority of the citizens of the united kingdom will choose to remain in the european union, for which yesterday's proposal by council president tusk is a good basis for compromise. the european union needs the united kingdom and vice versa. in today's interwoven world of diverse relationships, the union of the countries of the european continent is truly the only true answer.
written. ‒ i support this report on safeguard measures which seek to protect eu member states in a situation where a product is imported from moldova in a way that may cause damage to the industry of eu countries (e.g. reduction or elimination of customs duties leading to the import of large quantities of products). so far there has been no safeguard under the eu fta, and i think that the member states must protect themselves in such circumstances.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the preferential tariff treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part (com(2015) 0154 c8-0092/2015 2015/0079 ((cod)) - by the ordinary legislative procedure, first reading. the agreement provides for a 'prevention mechanism against circumvention' allowing the reintroduction of a customs duty in cases where imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from the republic of moldova exceed a specified threshold without a valid justification or without a valid indication of the exact origin. the inclusion of the avoidance clause is important in order to prevent the importation into the eu of non-moldovan products via the republic of moldova, taking advantage of the provisions of the agreement.
written. ‒ the eu-moldova association agreement, as in most eu trade agreements, is also anchored in a bilateral safeguard clause. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the agreement also includes a so-called 'anti-circumvention mechanism' which allows the reintroduction of a duty rate established under the most-favoured-nation principle. i supported the report by mr helmut scholz on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of preferential customs treatment. it is necessary to include the instruments necessary for the application of provisional safeguard measures in the event of an increase in imports in order to prevent economic injury to the union market and its producers.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of preferential customs treatment under the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. i believe that the european union must take care first of all of its own producers and their interests. the implementation of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism will ensure the position of european producers, including croatian producers, in the event that moldova unexpectedly starts to deliver products in quantities higher than those agreed. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a list of the products referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. in particular, it is the export of agricultural products that accounts for a large part of moldova's exports to the eu, which makes it necessary to take appropriate measures to avoid the overflooding of the market with products of the quality in question.
written. ‒ i welcome and support the commission's proposal, given that it is necessary to incorporate in union law the instruments necessary for the application of provisional safeguard measures in the event of an increase in imports which would cause economic damage to the union market and its producers. it is necessary to incorporate into eu law a safeguard clause and a mechanism to prevent the circumvention of the measures provided for in the association agreement with moldova. i agree that the safeguard measure must be limited in time to the period necessary to prevent material injury to the union industry. i hope it will have a positive impact on eu-moldova trade, as the eu is moldova's largest trading partner with which it has 46.4% of its trade.
written. i support the report by mr helmut scholz on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the preferential customs treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. the agreement was signed on 24 june 2014 and has been provisionally applied since 1 september 2014. the european parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of that agreement on 13 november 2014. the agreement establishes a preferential trade regime a detailed and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). the commission has also examined whether the measures in force in the union are in line with the union interest. the existing instrument allows for the temporary suspension of preferential customs treatment in the event that the application of such treatment would result in an unexpected and significant increase in imports, thus causing injury to the domestic industry of the eu. the adoption of the proposal is necessary in order to allow the obligations of moldova arising from the agreement to be implemented for the purpose of protecting eu producers, if necessary.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the agreement establishes a preferential trade regime a detailed and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 introducing autonomous trade preferences for moldova has recently been amended to extend the duty-free treatment to moldovan wine and to grant duty-free quotas for apples, plums and table grapes. as in most eu trade agreements, the agreement includes a bilateral safeguard clause, set out in articles 165 to 169. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation, including the detailed rules for the application of the safeguard measure. therefore, i support the commission's proposal to incorporate into union law and use the instruments necessary to apply provisional safeguard measures in the event of an increase in imports which would cause economic injury to the union market and its producers.
written. ‒ the report, on the proposal of the inta committee, contains two minor technical amendments to the bilateral agreement between the european union and moldova. moldova already has a preferential trade agreement with the eu, with which the eu is the largest trading partner, accounting for 46,4% of its trade. the main products imported into the union from moldova are oilseeds, fresh and dried nuts, apple juice, wine and cereals. the main products exported by the union to moldova are spirits, food products, cigarettes, certain fruits and vegetables, including citrus fruits, pork and animal feed. the union is striving to be a good partner, but it is also looking after its own economic interests. i support the report because it calls for only minor amendments aimed at harmonising the texts. moldova has an open path towards reform and closer relations with the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal to allow for the temporary suspension of the preferential customs treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. given the need to incorporate into union law the instruments necessary to apply safeguard measures in the event of an increase in imports which would cause economic injury to the european union market and its producers, i support the inclusion of a bilateral safeguard clause in the agreement. in addition, i consider that the clauses on the anti-circumvention mechanism are important to prevent imports of non-moldovan products through that country by taking advantage of the agreement to circumvent the requirements relating to rules of origin. the commission has also found that the commission has not provided sufficient evidence to support its conclusion that the measures in force are in line with the principles of the union's common customs tariff.
written. ‒ i support this report on safeguard measures that seek to protect eu member states in a situation where imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain quota without a clearly identified origin of the products. in these cases, i support safeguard measures, such as the introduction of a customs tariff, to protect eu member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the preferential tariff treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part (com ((2015) 0155 c8-0091/2015 2015/0080 ((cod))), in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, first reading. in particular, the agreement includes a 'prevention of circumvention mechanism' allowing for the reintroduction of a customs duty in cases where imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from georgia exceed a specified threshold without a valid justification or without a valid indication of the exact origin. the inclusion of a avoidance clause is important in order to prevent the importation into the eu of georgian products via georgia taking advantage of the provisions of the agreement.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr gabrielius landberg on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism. the proposal allows for the temporary suspension of preferential customs treatment between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. the association agreement between the european union (eu) and georgia is provisionally applied as from 1 september 2014. the agreement establishes an ambitious preferential trade regime between the two parties, known as the deep and comprehensive free trade area. the agreement also includes a so-called 'prevention of circumvention mechanism' which allows the reintroduction of a customs rate established under the most-favoured-nation principle in cases where imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from georgia exceed a specified threshold without a valid justification of their exact origin.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of preferential customs treatment under the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. i believe that the european union should stand firmly behind european producers and look after their interests, especially in concluding trade agreements with non-eu countries. the commission has also received comments from the union industry, including from the union industry itself, which have not been taken into account in the assessment of the injury margin. i believe that the existence of this mechanism will be particularly beneficial for european farmers who are particularly sensitive to the import of cheaper agricultural products. in this way, the eu will be able to control much better the quantity of products it imports, balancing the interests of its producers with those of our partners outside the eu.
written. ‒ i support the proposal concerning the incorporation into union law of the relevant parts of the agreed text of the agreement and the procedures to ensure its effective application, in order to prevent possible negative impact on the market. i also support the incorporation into eu law of the 'anti-circumvention mechanism' provided for in the association agreement with georgia. the agreement establishes an ambitious preferential trade regime between the two parties which will represent a detailed and comprehensive free trade area as well as additional european union engagement and support to georgia.
written. i support the report by mr gabrielius landberg on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism, allowing for the temporary suspension of the preferential tariff treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. the association agreement between the european union and georgia, signed on 27 june 2014, was approved by the european parliament on 18 december 2014 and has been provisionally applied since 1 september 2014. the agreement establishes an ambitious preferential trade regime between the two parties, known as the deep and comprehensive free trade area. the eu has also negotiated a trade agreement with armenia, which is a member of the association council, and with the republic of moldova, which is a member of the association council. the eu is currently georgia's main trading partner. the agreement, more specifically article 27, includes a so-called 'anti-circumvention mechanism' which allows the reintroduction of a most-favoured-nation duty rate in cases where imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from georgia exceed a specified threshold (average annual import volume) without a valid justification of their exact origin.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the association agreement between the european union (eu) and georgia was signed on 27 june 2014 and is provisionally applied as from 1 september 2014. the agreement establishes an ambitious preferential trade regime between the two parties, known as the deep and comprehensive free trade area. the eu is currently georgia's main trading partner. 27.2% of georgia's trade is with the eu. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from the past dumping practices. as regards agricultural products, the main products imported into the eu from georgia are fresh or dried hazelnuts, mineral water and wine. the eu exports to georgia mainly processed agricultural products (such as spirits and food products) and dairy products. the inclusion of an avoidance clause is necessary to prevent imports into the union of georgian products via georgia taking advantage of the provisions of the agreement and in particular to avoid that countries which have concluded bilateral trade agreements with georgia, such as turkey or europmed countries, use the agreement with the union to avoid the requirements of 'reports on origin'. the clause constitutes a mechanism to protect georgian products from such potential abuse and unprecedented competition from georgian products.
written. ‒ the association agreement contains several key points which georgia is expected to fulfil. trade liberalization is one of them. the european union is currently georgia's main trading partner and article 27 of the agreement with georgia includes a so-called 'anti-circumvention mechanism' allowing the reintroduction of a customs duty established in cases where imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from georgia exceed a specified threshold, without a valid justification of their exact origin. the inclusion of an avoidance clause is necessary to prevent imports into the union of georgian products via georgia in order to avoid countries with bilateral trade agreements with georgia circumventing the requirements of 'rules of origin'. therefore, i support this commission proposal to incorporate into union law the relevant parts of the agreed text of the agreement in order to prevent possible negative market effects.
written. ‒ the association agreement with georgia, signed in 2014, includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism that allows the reintroduction of a most-favoured-nation tariff rate in cases where imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed the thresholds without a valid justification of their exact origin. the temporary suspension of preferential customs treatment provides eu internal legislation with an instrument to enable the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism of the agreement, by which georgia has committed itself to comply with all the rules. it aims to create a transparent business and investment environment and appropriate regulatory reforms, and the rules must be the same for all. the report is therefore extremely important for the sake of more effective monitoring of the implementation of the common commercial policy and for greater transparency of the agreement itself, which is why i voted in favour.
written. ‒ i support this proposal calling on the council to speed up the process of ratifying the marrakesh treaty. the contract focuses on copyright exceptions to allow for greater distribution of books in formats accessible to visually impaired citizens. there are more than 26 million visually impaired people in europe, and only 5% of published books are accessible in these formats!
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, on the basis of the petitions received, in particular resolution 924/2011, because i fully support the efforts and measures aimed at the over 26 350 000 blind and partially sighted people in europe. the marrakesh treaty also represents a political message in which the european union fully supports the rights of persons with disabilities, namely the application of the rights of equal opportunities, non-discriminatory education and access to cultural materials. therefore, i support this motion for a resolution in its entirety.
‒ the ratification of the marrakesh treaty enables blind and partially sighted persons and other persons with reading difficulties to fully exercise their right to freedom of expression. it is important to facilitate access to published works for blind and partially sighted persons and for persons who for some other reason cannot use standard printing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty because disabled people should be granted the right to education without discrimination. it is necessary to ensure that laws protecting intellectual property rights do not constitute an obstacle to access by persons with disabilities to cultural and other printed materials. it is a devastating fact that less than 5% of the world's published books are available in alternative formats for blind and partially sighted people and for people with disabilities in general, and this situation must change urgently.
written. ‒ people with disabilities aspire to the full enjoyment of their civil status, to active participation in society, to equality of opportunity and to independent living aimed at improving its quality. it involves involvement in all segments of life and society. the right to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunity for all blind and visually impaired persons, i consider one of the fundamental rights that must be enabled, not only for the benefit of blind and visually impaired persons, but for the benefit of the entire community. i believe that every country must take all possible measures to provide an adequate educational programme, accompanied by equally adequate educational materials, to all persons who wish to work on their education, especially persons with disabilities. the ratification of the marrakesh treaty would create certain conditions that would help to overcome the problems that blind and partially sighted people face on a daily basis, and the denial of printed materials in the language of the blind would have extremely harmful consequences for the whole community. i therefore fully support the resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty and call on the eu member states that have not yet done so to ratify the treaty and unblock the ratification process.
written. ‒ the world health organisation estimated in 2010 that there were 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 partially sighted people in europe, making a total of 26 350 000 blind and partially sighted people. at the same time, only 5% of books in accessible formats are produced in developed countries, and even less than 1% in developing countries. i therefore agree that the process of ratification of the marrakesh treaty, signed by the eu in june 2014, needs to be accelerated. i regret to point out that the seven eu member states form a blocking minority which prevents the treaty from being ratified. the blind, the partially sighted and persons who for any other reason cannot use a printing press must have equal access to books and printed material in order to participate fully and effectively in society. the marrakesh treaty is a human rights issue, and i hope for its early ratification for the just protection of those rights.
‒ the world health organisation estimated in 2010 that there were 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 partially sighted people in europe, making a total of 26 350 000 blind and partially sighted people. in developed countries, only 5% of books are produced in accessible formats, and in developing countries, even less than 1%. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncprd) highlights the right of persons with disabilities to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunity, while ensuring that laws protecting intellectual property rights do not create unreasonable or discriminatory barriers to access to cultural materials for persons with disabilities, and i therefore supported the resolution.
written. ‒ the marrakesh treaty provides for easier access to books and other traditionally printed materials for the visually impaired and blind. less than 5% of the world's materials are available to this large and vulnerable group, while the situation in the underdeveloped and developing countries is far worse than the global average. the agreement is based on copyright exceptions to facilitate the creation of accessible and accessible versions of books and other copyrighted works. the international community has put much effort into this agreement, and certain council member countries are delaying ratification. the treaty is in line with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and more political will should be shown to implement it. i support ratification of the marrakesh treaty because equality of opportunity is something we must strive for, and by delaying ratification of this treaty, the eu, as a human rights veteran, is delaying its implementation.
written. - two years after the signing, the marrakesh treaty has still not been ratified. despite the support of the european parliament, the commission and the vast majority of member states, several large eu member states oppose ratification and block the council's compromise. this delay in ratification means that today 250 million blind and partially sighted people, as well as others who are unable to use standard printing, are still unable to have equal access to books, information and published works as other people do. this undermines almost every right guaranteed by the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, from education to information to political participation. access to culture and information is a fundamental human right, and the marrakesh treaty is the first step in realising these rights. however, without ratification, it's all in the words. the delay was caused by a lack of political will, not legal obstacles. it is time for the eu to bridge the gap between words and deeds and to fulfil its obligations towards people with disabilities. the european union and all member states should set an example for their citizens in integrating people with disabilities into society and in making their daily lives easier, rather than more complicated. i therefore fully support the ratification of the marrakesh treaty and appeal to all institutions to do so as soon as possible.
written. ‒i voted in favour of this objection because i believe that the current system for the authorisation of gmo food in the eu should be changed. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the commission has not received any information from the member states on the application of the measures provided for in this regulation. in such a situation, the commission has the right under the existing rules to act itself as it deems necessary. while the decision is legal, it's not democratic. the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable. we have to accept the fact that most member states are against gmos, but some states want them.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgo72-2) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the parliament and of the council, as it calls on the commission to withdraw its draft decision. the genetically modified strain in question contains certain substances that are very likely to be carcinogenic to humans. in this context, the proposed national prohibition on the sale and use of the product would be unenforceable, even if the cultivation takes place exclusively on the territory of one member state, as the trade in the product also takes place beyond national borders.
written. ‒ bayer cropscience ag applied in june 2011 for authorisation to place on the market food, food ingredients and feed containing fg72 soybean. fg72 soybeans contain a protein that also contains glyphosate. the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organization's specialized cancer agency, has classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. in october 2015, parliament found that although the cultivation takes place on the territory of one member state, the commission's ban on use and sale is unenforceable on the grounds that it would require the reintroduction of border controls on imports. the commission is invited to withdraw its draft decision and to present a new legislative proposal for amendment, taking into account national issues that go beyond concerns related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health and the environment. i did not support the objection under article 106 because i consider it important to ensure the protection of the health of all eu and croatian citizens.
written. ‒ i have supported the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2). the genetically modified mst-fgø72-2 soybean, as described in the application, expresses the protein 2mepsps which confers tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organisation's cancer-specialized agency, placed glyphosate in the category of substances likely to be carcinogenic to humans, and on 4 september 2015, the california office for environmental health hazard assessment (oehha) also issued a notice of its intention to add glyphosate to its list of chemicals and states known to cause cancer. i consider the use of potentially carcinogenic substances in the environment to be an unwarranted risk. the commission has also concluded that the use of gmos in food and feed is not a legitimate concern for the health of consumers and that the use of gmos in food and feed is not justified by the risk of contamination of the environment. in view of the above, i supported this objection.
written. ‒ given that genetically modified soybean mst-fgø72-2 expresses the protein 2mepsps, which causes tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides, and the protein hppd w336, which causes tolerance to isoxaflutol-containing herbicides, and that glyphosate is classified as a substance likely to cause cancer in humans by the international agency for research on cancer, a specialized agency of the world health organisation, i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union legislation, which implies providing the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. in croatia there are several laws regulating gmos, these new laws that are in some aspects more restrictive than eu law. in countries where this type of legislation is in force, even more public debate and public consensus is needed to authorise the said species, which has not been the case, which is why i agree with the objection put forward.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ on 24 june 2011, bayer cropscience ag submitted to the competent authorities of belgium an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of commission and parliament regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of a food consisting of, or produced from fg72 soybean. i do not support this objection.
written. ‒i voted in favour of this objection because i believe that the current system for the authorisation of gmo food in the eu should be changed. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the member states have not been able to agree on the granting or refusal of authorisation for the mon 87708xmon 89788 strain for five years. in such a situation, the commission has the right under the existing rules to act itself as it deems necessary. while the decision is legal, it's not democratic. the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable. we have to accept the fact that most member states are against gmos, but some states want them.
written. ‒ i am voting in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788 (mon-87708-9 x mon-89788-1) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council, because the interpretation of glyphosate, contained in the soybean concerned, by the international agency for research on cancer and the world health organisation is such as to indicate that the substance is likely to be carcinogenic to humans. in addition, despite the fact that the cultivation takes place exclusively on the territory of one member state, the trade of the products also takes place beyond national borders and therefore the proposed national prohibition of sale and use would be unenforceable. accordingly, i voted in favour of this proposal which asks the commission to withdraw its draft decision.
written. ‒ in march 2012, monsanto europe sa submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application for the authorisation of the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing mon 87708 × mon 89788 soybean. the soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788 contains a protein which also contains glyphosate. the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organization's specialized cancer agency, has classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. in october 2015, parliament found that although the cultivation takes place on the territory of one member state, the commission's ban on use and sale is unenforceable on the grounds that it would require the reintroduction of border controls on imports. the commission is invited to withdraw its draft decision and to present a new legislative proposal for amendment, taking into account national issues that go beyond concerns related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health and the environment. i did not support the objection under article 106 because i consider it important to ensure the protection of the health of all eu citizens.
written. ‒ i have supported the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1. the genetically modified mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1 soybean, as described in the application, is co-expressed with cp4 epsps, a protein which induces tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organisation's cancer-specialized agency, placed glyphosate in the category of substances likely to be carcinogenic to humans, and on 4 september 2015, the california office for environmental health hazard assessment (oehha) also issued a notice of its intention to add glyphosate to its list of chemicals and states known to cause cancer. the use of potentially carcinogenic substances in the environment is a risk i consider unwarranted. the commission has also concluded that the proposed amendment to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 does not provide for a derogation from the general principles of good agricultural practice and does not provide for a derogation from the general principles of good agricultural practice. in view of the above, i supported this objection.
written. ‒ in genetically modified mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1 soybean, the dmo proteins, which cause tolerance to the herbicides based on the active substance dicamba, and the cp4 epsps protein, which causes tolerance to the herbicides containing glyphosate, are expressed. the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organization's specialized cancer agency, has classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. in the light of the above, i consider that the draft commission implementing decision concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788 is not in accordance with union legislation, as it is not consistent with the objectives and principles of providing a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. the commission's approval is based solely on the assessment of the health and environmental risks of the gmo and excludes the socio-economic impact of the gmo and the consequences of the pollution resulting from the gmo, which i consider insufficiently comprehensive and therefore agree with the objection proposal.
written. ‒ on 23 march 2012, monsanto europe s.a. submitted to the competent authorities of the netherlands an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of commission and parliament regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of a food consisting of, or produced from mon 87708 x mon 89788 soybean. i do not support this objection.
written. ‒i voted in favour of this objection because i believe that the current system for the authorisation of gmo food in the eu should be changed. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the member states have not been able to agree on the granting or refusal of authorisation for the mon 87705xmon 89788 strain for five years. in such a situation, the commission has the right under the existing rules to act itself as it deems necessary. while the decision is legal, it's not democratic. the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable. we have to accept the fact that most member states are against gmos, but some states want them.
written. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 (mon-87705-6 x mon-89788-1) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the parliament and of the council, as it calls on the commission to withdraw its draft decision. the genetically modified soybean in question contains certain substances which, following research by the international agency for research on cancer and the world health organization, are very likely to be carcinogenic to humans. the commission should therefore be able to impose a national prohibition on the use of the product in the union.
written. ‒ in august 2011, monsanto europe sa submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application for the authorisation of the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing mon 87705 x mon 89788 soybean. the soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 contains a protein that also contains glyphosate. the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organization's specialized cancer agency, has classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. the commission has also concluded that the use of the plant protection product 'pyrrhophthora' in the union is not in line with the union's requirements. the commission is invited to withdraw its draft decision and to present a new legislative proposal for amendment, taking into account national issues that go beyond concerns related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health and the environment. i did not support the objection under article 106 because i consider it important to ensure the protection of the health of all eu and croatian citizens.
written. ‒ i have supported the european parliament resolution on a draft commission implementing decision concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon-87705 × mon-89788. the genetically modified mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1 soybean, as described in the application, expresses, among other modifications, the cp4 protein epsps which confers tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organisation's cancer-specialized agency, placed glyphosate in the category of substances likely to be carcinogenic to humans, and on 4 september 2015, the california office for environmental health hazard assessment (oehha) also issued a notice of its intention to add glyphosate to its list of chemicals and states known to cause cancer. the use of potentially carcinogenic substances in the environment is a risk i consider unwarranted. the commission has also concluded that the proposed amendment to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 does not provide for a derogation from the general principles of good agricultural practice and does not provide for a derogation from the general principles of good agricultural practice. in view of the above, i supported this objection.
written. ‒ the genetically modified mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1 soybean has reduced expression of the enzyme δ12-fatty acid desaturase (fad2) and thioesterase of the palmitoyl acetyl carrier protein (fatb), resulting in an increase in oleic acid and a decrease in linoleic acid, and expresses the protein cp4 epsps, which causes tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides, which according to the international agency for research on cancer falls into the category of substances that are likely to be carcinogenic to humans. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the draft implementing decision. every one of the 21 counties in the republic of croatia has made a decision to be gmo-free. to date, no authorisation has been granted in the hr for the deliberate introduction of gmos, either for experimentation, commercial cultivation or for food or feed containing gmos. as the representative of croatia, i therefore support the motion to object to the decision to authorise the said soybean.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ on 11 august 2011, monsanto europe s.a. submitted to the competent authorities of the netherlands an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of commission and parliament regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of a food consisting of, or produced from mon 87705 x mon 89788 soybean. i do not support this objection.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6), as air pollution is one of the biggest problems of our time and the cause of many diseases and premature deaths. according to a recent analysis of air pollution by the european environment agency, 75,000 premature deaths in europe are attributed to nitrogen oxide emissions, in this case specifically no2. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of such a derogation. i agree that the commission should submit a new draft regulation, as the motion for a resolution itself requires, to examine real driving emissions for all vehicles and to guarantee the effectiveness of the emission control system.
written. ‒ every year in the union, 430 000 premature deaths are caused by air pollution. sustained efforts to reduce vehicle emissions are needed to achieve the eu's air quality targets. the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector is an essential element to maintain air quality and it is necessary to introduce national emission ceilings for certain pollutants. the automotive industry should be informed of future emission limit values, including emission values for euro 5 and euro 6 levels. the introduction of such measures to reduce nox emissions at an early stage will provide long-term planning certainty for vehicle manufacturers across europe. the commission's draft has resulted in a de facto general departure from the applicable emission limit values and is therefore not in line with union law. the commission is requested to withdraw the draft regulation without delay and to submit a new one by 1 april 2016 at the latest, in order to introduce real driving emissions testing for all vehicles and to guarantee the effectiveness of the emission control system. i did not support the objection under article 106 because i believe that there needs to be a systematic and harmonised way of monitoring air emissions without harming the automotive industry. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were in line with the findings of the investigation.
written. ‒ objection to the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) did not receive a sufficient number of votes. the withdrawal of the proposal for this act, as requested in the motion for a resolution to raise an objection under rule 106 of the ep's rules of procedure, would not bring any change to the existing situation and would further complicate the situation and delay the adoption of the relevant legal acts by at least two years, the average duration of the procedure. the proposed would also mean maintaining the status quo until a new proposal is made, without any real reduction in emissions, which is in no one's interest. the proposed 'transitional solution' may not be the best, especially after the discovery of the laboratory-testing-fixing scandal, but it is certainly on track to achieve the desired objectives. this approach is also supported by the statement of elżbieta bieńkowska, commissioner for internal market, industry, entrepreneurship and smes, who spoke about the extensive changes to the existing vehicle type-approval regulations. in this regard, it is necessary to establish a proven and reliable real-world emission test methodology, which will result in a real reduction of emissions of air pollutants (in particular nitrogen oxides) from light passenger and commercial vehicles.
‒ more than 430 000 premature deaths caused by air pollution are recorded in the union every year and the costs associated with the health impacts of air pollution are estimated at eur 940 billion per year. according to a recent analysis of air pollution by the european environment agency, 75 000 premature deaths are attributed to no2 emissions in europe, with 93% of all overrunning occurring in areas close to roads. these are shocking figures that point to the urgent need for action to reduce emissions and mitigate the consequences they cause. in paragraph 14 of its resolution of 27 october 2015 on emission measurements in the automotive sector, parliament confirmed the provision in the report requesting the commission to 'carry out real-world emission testing for all vehicles type-approved or registered since 2015 in order to ensure the effectiveness of the emission control system and to enable vehicles to comply with this regulation and its implementing measures. in view of this, and the draft commission regulation (d042120/03), i agree with the view that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 715/2007, that the draft commission regulation has resulted in a de facto general departure from the applicable emission limit values, and is therefore not in line with union law.
written. i support the motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6). each year in the european union, over 430 000 premature deaths are recorded due to air pollution, and the costs associated with the health impacts of air pollution are estimated at €940 billion per year. nitrogen oxides are one of the main causes of air pollution, which causes lung cancer, asthma, and many other respiratory diseases, among others, as well as environmental degradation involving processes such as eutrophication and acidification. according to a recent analysis of air pollution by the european environment agency, 75 000 premature deaths are attributed to no2 emissions in europe, with 93% of all overrunning occurring in areas close to roads. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of the union's policy on air quality. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of the union's greenhouse gas emissions reduction strategy.
written. ‒ diesel exhaust gases are among the main sources of nitrogen oxides which are one of the biggest air pollutants. in addition to causing cancer, asthma, and numerous respiratory diseases, they are extremely damaging to the environment by causing eutrophication and acidification. regulation (ec) no 715/2007 agreed to set a euro 6 threshold and to achieve limits not only for the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions but also for the emissions of nitrogen oxides and pm (fine particulate matter). regulation (ec) no 692/2008 requires manufacturers to ensure that the agreed exhaust emission values are not exceeded in any way during type approval. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the proposed amendments to the existing regulation with the requirements of the directive 2009/125/ec. for these reasons, i supported the amendment of regulation (ec) no 692/2008, considering the draft commission implementing decision to be an excess of the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 715/2007.
written. ‒ the commission is proposing a major reform of the european legal framework for type-approval. under current rules, the sole responsibility for monitoring manufacturers' compliance with the relevant eu rules and for confirming that a vehicle meets all the requirements for placing on the market lies with the national authorities. the new commission proposal will achieve more independent vehicle testing and increased supervision of vehicles already in circulation. strengthened supervision at european level will strengthen the system as a whole. the commission had already begun to review the eu legal framework for the type-approval of motor vehicles before the volkswagen revelations. in the meantime, it concluded that far-reaching reform was needed to prevent a recurrence of non-compliance. the new proposal for a regulation on the type-approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles complements the work on introducing more reliable emission tests. i rejected the objection because in the time until the new regulation comes into force the market needs to be regulated and we need the existing regulation.
written. ‒ the fact is that there are more than 430 000 premature deaths caused by air pollution in the union every year and that the costs associated with the health impact of air pollution are estimated at eur 940 billion per year. according to a recent analysis of air pollution by the european environment agency, 75 000 premature deaths are attributed to no2 emissions in europe, with 93% of all overrunning occurring in areas close to roads. in particular, a significant reduction in the emissions of nitrogen oxides from diesel vehicles is needed to improve air quality and meet the limit values for pollutants. the commission considers that the measures are necessary to ensure that the union industry is able to benefit from the full benefits of the scheme. i do not support the objection, as the commission's proposal is in line with the above.
written. ‒ i voted against the objection on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) as i believe that emissions problems must be addressed in accordance with real driving emissions (rde) tests. in particular, in view of the manipulation of the data and the recent events that have shaken the german car manufacturer, i consider that rde testing will ensure the control of real driving emissions and thus contribute to a clear reduction of harmful gases and to an improvement of air quality. as i believe that the implementation of such tests will reduce emissions and improve air quality at the same time, i believe that we should not risk further delaying the achievement of the vehicle emission reduction target with such objections.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution with recommendations to the european parliament's committee on trade in services (tisa) negotiations because tisa must strengthen the global rules-based trading system and encourage mutual market access and therefore open up new markets for small and large european companies and firms. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the trips agreement to the united kingdom. on the other hand, it is good to encourage new countries to join the negotiations in order to contribute to the multilateralisation of the tisa. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the tisa and its implementation in the light of the progress made in the implementation of the tisa. i support this report and believe that tisa can make a significant contribution to european consumers and workers.
written. ‒ the tisa aims at liberalising world trade in all activities and services. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the provisional measures in force. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of research and technological development, including in the area of research and technological development, in order to amend the list of third countries whose participation is required in order to take account of the accession of third countries. the integrity and values of the eu will be protected, but at the same time allowing eu industry to succeed on a global scale. this trade agreement would raise employment and growth in the eu and open up access to foreign markets, public procurement, transport, the telecommunications sector and other financial services. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. i supported the recommendations of the commission for the negotiations on tisa because this agreement will allow access to foreign markets and to croatian entrepreneurs. the eu will have safeguards to protect eu citizens, so that both croatian businesses and citizens are protected from negative external influences, while having access to foreign markets.
written. ‒ i welcome the report on the european parliament's recommendations to the commission for the negotiation of the agreement on trade in services, as i believe that a better and more competitive market can be achieved by adopting new regulatory frameworks in this area. some of the measures i support and which i believe will have a positive impact on trade in services are the setting of common rules and standards for cross-border cooperation in specific sectors of trade in services. the measures also cover issues such as licensing and qualification procedures, the independence of inspections, fair competition in obtaining marketing space, compliance with competition rules and non-discriminatory access to networks. what i consider to be of the utmost importance and what this agreement would achieve is the creation of jobs that we need. i believe that by expanding the market beyond the borders of the european union, various benefits would be achieved both economically and culturally and in terms of the exchange of ideas, which is very important in further development and monitoring of innovation. a fairer way of doing business would create what is called healthy competition between companies, whether they are small, medium or large, because everyone would have equal rights, which i think is extremely important for this market sector. i therefore fully support this report.
written. ‒ the market for services has changed significantly since the last agreement was concluded, mainly with the development of the internet. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is compatible with the internal market in the form of an exemption from the notification requirement of article 108 (3) tfeu. small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly neglected by this non-reciprocity. but reciprocity must not be our only goal. it should be accompanied by strong standards of protection of workers, data, consumer rights and its provisions should be publicly available. having taken part in the preparation of the opinion of the committee on regional development, i am pleased that this report calls for the exclusion of all public services from the agreement, such as health and education, and that it leaves the local and regional authorities the right to regulate services and introduce safeguard measures as necessary. i would like to thank my colleagues for the excellent work they have done, because this report has achieved its objective, it clearly indicates parliament's priorities and expectations for the continuation of the negotiations. it does not in any way prejudice the final content nor imply automatic acceptance. this agreement is our chance to regulate globalization, but it's only acceptable if it allows us to maintain our principles and standards.
written. ‒ tisa is a plurilateral agreement bringing together 24 wto members, including the european union, which account for 70% of total world trade. the aim is to open up the market to provide citizens of the region with greater choice in financial and telecommunications services, e-commerce, the development of new maritime trade networks, etc. with particular emphasis on the protection of personal data of internet users when using these services. as the european union is both the world's largest importer and exporter, market expansion allows it to become more competitive. the principles of gender equality, the promotion of labour and social rights, the provision of aid to developing countries, the guarantee of the use of domestic health insurance, and responsible government lending and borrowing should certainly be supported. however, states need to be able to take certain measures to protect their citizens as well as national security and to support agreements aimed at protecting the environment.
written. ‒ any trade agreement should provide greater rights and lower prices for european consumers, and more jobs and better protection for workers. trade agreements should also contribute to sustainable development, promote corporate social responsibility at global level and level the playing field for european companies. in the context of globalisation, digitalisation and the trend towards trade in services taking place in our economies and international trade, political action is needed to improve international regulations. it should be emphasised that the multilateral trading system remains the most effective framework for achieving open and fair trade around the world. tisa is an opportunity for the eu, which accounts for 25% of global services exports and had a trade surplus of eur 170 billion in 2013, to consolidate its position as the world's largest exporter of services. the value of eu services exports has doubled over the last ten years, reaching eur 728 billion in 2014. the services sector employs close to 70% of the eu's workforce and accounts for 40% of the value of goods exported from europe. the service sectors will account for 90% of the new jobs that will be created in the eu between 2013 and 2025, and so this agreement has the potential to boost growth and job creation in the eu, and i supported it.
written. ‒ the agreement on trade in services, like any trade agreement, must provide greater rights and lower prices for european consumers, as well as better protection for workers and create new jobs. while the agreement in its current form is plurilateral, efforts should be made to reach a critical mass for the concluded agreement to take on a multilateral dimension within the world trade organisation. the agreement also has a high potential for job creation, as the service sectors are projected to account for 90% of new jobs created in the european union by 2025. the agreement should increase access to foreign markets and help eu companies to thrive in the age of global chains. i support the recommendations set out in this debate because i believe that the tsa must ensure more reciprocity in market access, create conditions for global application, provide tangible benefits to end-users and allow for access to talks by other stakeholders to facilitate the future multilateralisation of the agreement. i agree that the european parliament must work constructively and pragmatically to achieve good agreement between the parties through the negotiations on the agreement.
written. ‒ as many as 90% of citizens consider a new gender equality strategy to be necessary, and the commission has translated their wishes into a working document. that's a slap in the face to all the women in the eu. the eu must set an example of upholding the values of tolerance and equality, especially in such turbulent times. you'd expect that in 2016, some things are taken for granted, but on gender equality issues, we often take one step forward and two steps back. an equality strategy should not be a matter for discussion, but our obligation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a new strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe after 2015 because the commission's previous strategy for equality between women and men for the period 2010-2015 was not comprehensive enough to make a sufficient contribution to gender equality at european and international level. the objectives set out in that strategy have not been effectively achieved, and the new strategy gives incentives to implement concrete measures aimed at strengthening women's rights and promoting gender equality in the areas of violence against women, remuneration, working time, decision-making, health, education, media and many others.
written. ‒ equality between women and men is one of the fundamental values of the member states, and is of paramount importance for the achievement of the eu's general objectives. the commission's previous gender equality strategy 2010-2015 did not ensure gender equality at european and international level. the new strategy is needed and must result in real targets and real results, as according to recent eurostat statistics, the employment rate of men in the member states in 2014 was still higher than the employment rate of women (70,1% for men compared to 59,6% for women). in addition, the gender employment gap in entrepreneurship remains large - in 2012, women accounted for only 31% of self-employed citizens, i.e. only 10% of women in employment were self-employed. in a resolution of june 2015, parliament pointed to the need for the commission to introduce a new strategy. as the need for a strategy remains, it is necessary to present a new, decentralised gender equality strategy within the eu. since the same problems are still occurring, a resolution is needed that will help strategically to solve these problems, and unfortunately this resolution is not appropriate, so i did not support it.
written. ‒ in order to create legislative frameworks that are of sufficient quality and effectiveness to protect women's rights in the right way and to allow for the creation of equal conditions and access and equal opportunities for both women and men to exercise their rights, we need to focus on the specific problems faced by women, as well as those in the implementation of existing instruments that have failed to protect women's rights. women need our active involvement in the struggle to achieve their rights, but it must be properly directed. we need to ensure equal access for women to education and jobs in all positions. we need to ensure women receive equal pay for equal work. women deserve to be valued for their role as mothers and to have a proper work-life balance in order to successfully balance their role as mothers and workers. we've been missing a lot of ground on women's rights. by adopting hasty strategies, without clear analysis and clear and measurable indicators of change, we cannot make significant progress, but will only go round in circles. i did not support this resolution on a new strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe after 2015 because i believe that we need to focus on addressing priorities and analysing the existing situation and legislation. only then can we create new regulations.
written. ‒ gender equality is one of the eu's core values, as enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, and the eu is committed to mainstreaming it in all its activities. gender equality is also a strategic objective that is key to achieving the overall europe 2020 objectives of growth, employment and social inclusion. the european parliament, in its resolution of 9 june 2015, clearly called for a new, separate strategy on gender equality and women's rights for the period after 2015. the need for a new strategy is best illustrated by the results of the public consultation, which showed that 90% of respondents supported the new strategy. i therefore support calls on the commission to adopt immediately, in response to the results of the public consultation and the views of parliament and the council, a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights for the period 2016-2020, addressing gender equality issues in the areas of violence against women, working time, decision-making, health, education, media and external relations and in line with the international agenda. i also agree with the call on the commission to propose legislative initiatives in its work programme to eliminate the remaining inequalities between women and men in the eu, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ gender equality is one of the european union's founding values. unfortunately, there has been a lack of perseverance in the fight for equal rights for women and men. women today still face traditional prejudices that affect the division of labor in the home, educational attainment, the workplace, and society as a whole. exposure to discrimination is the biggest problem. the prevailing social perception is that women have difficulty competing with men in certain types of jobs, especially in the scientific and technological fields, which makes them pre-select completely different occupations and very rarely enter entrepreneurial waters. in addition, they face difficulties in reconciling work and family life, problems with unequal pay, and underrepresentation in politics and the economy that could affect collective decision-making. for all these reasons, and aware of the magnitude of the problem, i supported a european parliament resolution aimed at eradicating discrimination, respecting the dignity of women, the right to equality in the labour market and raising awareness of prejudice and the traditional division of roles.
the european parliament, in its resolution of 9 june 2015, clearly called for the adoption of a new strategy on women's rights and gender equality for the period after 2015, given that the objectives set out in the previous strategy (2010-2015) had not been met and that it was not sufficiently comprehensive to contribute to greater gender equality. in 2014, almost one third of women (32,2%) worked part-time, and according to eurostat data, the employment rate of men in 2014 in the member states of the european union remains higher than the employment rate of women (70,1% compared to 59,6%). over the past decade, there has been a slowdown in policy action and reforms at the european union level to strengthen women's rights and gender equality. the right to equal treatment is one of the fundamental rights of european society. i do not support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the existing legislation must be put to better use.
madam president, the first chapters in the negotiations with serbia have been opened and that is progress, but we should not be fooled into thinking that there have been some special twists in serbian politics. the efforts made by serbia to normalise relations with croatia are minimal. the issues of missing persons and the recognition of the existence of camps for croats on serbian soil in the homeland war, as well as the return of croatian property and cultural treasures, are still open. the commission and this house are increasingly taking initiatives on common european defence and a common army. member states and their citizens should have immense trust in their partners and neighbours, so much so that they put their security in their hands. how do you expect the citizens of croatia to trust in common defense in some future wars if the commission has so far been unable to defend the dignity of the victims of the last great war on european soil, but for the sake of particular interests continues to give in to serbia? mr delegate, you cannot ask that bilateral interests not be involved if this is the only way to resolve those interests and problems.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. szanyi, it was not croatia that attacked serbia, but serbia attacked croatia. so when you attack a country you have to admit that you have committed aggression and you have to do whatever is required of you. serbia would rather close its eyes and pretend that nothing happened. what are you gonna do about those refugees? what about the hundreds of women who have been raped and have not yet been brought to justice? what are you going to do with that stolen stolen treasure that's still on serbian soil? does croatia not have the right to ask for some kind of satisfaction?
madam president, the long-standing expectations of the serbian people are that negotiations should begin and that the process of serbia's accession to the european union should begin. that is why it is good, commissioner hahn, that we have opened negotiations and that we have started the process of serbia's accession to the european union. a number of positive steps serbia is taking in regional stability should be appreciated. serbia's role in the migrant crisis should also be appreciated. this should definitely be pointed out and we should continue to help because we know that the migration crisis will continue. what is also important in all this is that serbia respects the rights of minorities. not only of course the croatian minority but also all other minorities, romanian, bosniak in sandžak, that we speak openly about the right to autonomy of vojvodina, this must not be questioned. we also cannot, of course, leave out the question of the judiciary or the question of freedom of the press. overall, i think we should continue and open up further chapters because this will allow further democratization of serbia.
madam vice-president, minister koenders, commissioner hahn, minister joksimović, first of all i would like to thank our colleague david mcallister for another well-prepared report on serbia's progress and i appreciate that he has incorporated in it a number of constructive amendments which we as croatian members of parliament have tabled. i welcome the opening of chapter 32 on financial control and the chapter on other issues, which includes the main issue of normalising relations with kosovo. it is important that serbia continues to reform in the area of two key systemic chapters - justice and fundamental rights and justice, freedom and security. i am pleased that the report clearly emphasises the need for judicial independence and the guarantee of media freedom as key european values and a prerequisite for serbia's further path towards the european union. the report also draws attention to the need to depoliticize public administration and protect minority rights in accordance with international treaties and bilateral agreements. it is necessary to achieve adequate representation of minorities in local, regional and national representative bodies and to ensure the use of minority languages in the media and education. the closure of minority media programmes due to privatisation and the unresolved textbook issue are therefore of concern. it is important that serbia also facilitate the tracing of missing persons from the 1990s and continue to cooperate in the prosecution of war crimes with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. i also expect the problem of the controversial law on the extension of jurisdiction to the territory of other states to be resolved and i hope that this issue will also be resolved in dialogue with neighbours and with the help of the european commission.
madam president, i congratulate my colleague mcallister on a really good report on the state of affairs and progress in serbia over the past year. the improved legislative framework to be followed by effective implementation, participation in peacekeeping missions, progress on the european integration path are just some of the positive moments. at the same time, this report covers much of the content of last year's reports, which means that serbia still has a lot of work to do. threatened media freedom, insufficiently effective fight against corruption, progress in the rule of law, opposition participation in democratic processes, respect for human rights and minority rights, alignment with the european union's foreign policy are among the to-do lists that serbia must address without delay. the opening of negotiations with serbia marks the beginning of positive pressure with the aim of serious transformation of a large number of sectors in serbia. as highlighted in the report, improving relations with neighbours and resolving remaining bilateral issues, such as border demarcation, determining the fate of missing persons, succession, minority rights in vojvodina and the law on the prosecution of war crimes, are also of paramount importance in this process.
madam president, serbia's continuation of its european path is important for the normalisation of relations in south-east europe, which is in the interest of all neighbours, but also of the european union. however, i must express my dissatisfaction with the progress serbia is making in respecting the rights of national minorities. this specifically refers to the closure of media that broadcast programmes in croatian as well as in other national minority languages. the lack of financial support for printing textbooks in croatian and the lack of political representation of croats is a gross violation of the interstate treaty and the legal acquis of the european union. i ask that serbia change the law that has taken the role of little hague and that is a threat to croatian defenders from 18 member states of the european union. i call on the serbian authorities to reconsider the decision to rehabilitate the regime of drage mihajlovic in 2015, and on serbian politicians to refrain from radicalizing public space. by addressing these open issues, serbia will send a clear message that it is ready to respect the acquis of the european union, to continue the process of integration with the union and to build good neighbourly relations with the countries in its vicinity, which is a common goal.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i too would support all those who have spoken here about the importance of serbia's european path because it will lead to the democratisation of the state and society and is important for the entire western balkans region, but i would like to point out one controversial process that is taking place in serbia, namely the process of privatisation of the media which leads to a concentration of media that can be dangerous for media freedom, and has meanwhile led to the closure of the media in minority languages. the protection of media freedom and the protection of the rights of minorities, in particular the right to receive information in their own language, is one of the fundamental democratic rights and that is why i call on the european commission and the european parliament to monitor very closely the process of privatisation of the media, in particular the right of minorities to receive information in their own language.
madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate mr mcallister on his extraordinary report which covers all the things we've talked about over the last few years, but also a lot of the amendments that we've made, especially those from croatia. however, many of the same details from previous reports are repeated, which means that serbia has a long list of tasks to do. in any case, what i would emphasize is the alignment of serbia's foreign policy with the european union's policy. i am thinking in particular of relations with russia, but also of the part concerning bosnia and herzegovina where prime minister vucic supports the referendum on republika srpska which is unacceptable in my opinion. of course, there are also the rights of minorities, especially the croatian minority and their participation in the assembly of serbia, then the autonomy of vojvodina and the recognition of its cultural diversity, but also the return of cultural property and the fate of missing persons. we will insist on that and i would appreciate it if it were included in this report. i believe that in the course of this process, we will resolve this matter bilaterally.
madam president, i congratulate my colleague, mr lunacek, on his report, which gives a comprehensive picture of the opportunities in kosovo and the progress made in the past year. the most important thing is of course the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement, which we have recently ratified in the european parliament. it is a kind of recognition of kosovo's commitment to joining the european union. but further progress will depend on cooperation based on consensus among all political actors, which is unfortunately not the case now. once again, the problem of obstructing the opposition in parliament, which must be the mother house of debates on the future of the country, is on the rise. the scenes we've been seeing lately are not befitting a country with serious european aspirations. i hope that all the circumstances of the case involving the arrest of the opposition representatives will be investigated. we expect the representatives of the government and the opposition to replace confrontation with cooperation on european issues as soon as possible. the legislative framework has been improved over the past year, but its success will depend on its implementation. but organized crime, levels of corruption, high unemployment, especially among young people, and threatened media freedom continue to put a heavy strain on society. the measures adopted to combat terrorism and radicalisation, the reduction in the number of illegal migrants and asylum seekers in the european union, and the progress made in meeting the criteria for visa waiver for kosovo citizens are to be commended. i hope by the time the next report comes in, this matter will be closed, too. the constructive approach and progress in the dialogue with serbia are certainly to be commended. i regret that the same principle was not applied when kosovo applied for membership of unesco. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-kosovo partnership agreement and the implementation of the eu-kosovo partnership agreement, including the implementation of the eu-kosovo partnership agreement, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-kosovo partnership agreement. in conclusion, i hope that the stabilisation and association agreement will be a strong impetus for the many reforms that kosovo needs to implement. it would be entirely in the european spirit for the youngest european country to finally receive the full support of europe along the way.
madam president, mr commissioner, mr minister, kosovo is the youngest european country to emerge from a war that ended 15 years ago. i emphasize this because it is much more difficult in countries that have been through war to carry out internal democratic processes, and also to normalize relations with those countries' neighbors. and kosovo is a very important country, which is very important for the normalization of relations with serbia. it is one of the most important processes in the western balkans, and of course it also has an impact on stability and relations with other countries. i therefore particularly welcome the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement, which will help to accelerate the democratic process in kosovo, and would certainly help the recognition of kosovo by the other five european union countries and the liberalisation of the visa regime. but, of course, the first prerequisite for this is the stabilisation and unblocking of internal relations in kosovo, in the assembly of kosovo, and that is why i welcome the fact that the opposition from the assembly of kosovo was also present at the recent visit of the european affairs committee in the european parliament.
question asked by the member of parliament by raising his blue card i want to ask you, mrs bilde, do you think, as i do, that it is better to pursue a real policy in the balkans that leads to peace, rather than renewing old wars and old hostilities? and is it better that mr vucic and mr mustafa, the prime minister of serbia and the prime minister of kosovo, have a dialogue than not to have one, because i am sure that this contributes to peace, not to the war-mongering logic?
madam president, minister koenders, commissioner hahn, first of all i would like to thank our colleague lunacek for her well-prepared progress report which should be an incentive for further progress on kosovo's european path, which i personally strongly support as does the new croatian government. i welcome the ratification of the stabilisation and association agreement, which is now the cornerstone of kosovo's european integration. i also regret that kosovo has not become a member of unesco. it is good that progress has been made in relations with serbia, and all the agreements signed should be implemented. continuing dialogue with serbia is essential for the normalization of relations between these two countries, and i expect that the issue of missing persons will also be resolved. kosovo is the only country in south east europe whose citizens still need a visa to travel to the eu and i am in favour of visa liberalisation for kosovo citizens, which will reduce the pressure of illegal migration. i am pleased that the report also includes full support for the council's intention that the commission continue discussions on a framework agreement to allow kosovo to participate in european union programmes, and i hope that the parliamentary dialogue between the government and the opposition in kosovo will also be of a higher quality and will act constructively in order to achieve european standards of democratic institutions.
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs lunacek for her quality report, but also mrs mogherini and mr hahn who have made a significant contribution not only to this report, but to the situation so that we can assess it as progress. in any case, progress in kosovo is important because it contributes to the stabilization of the whole of the balkans. it is also clear that the most important condition is the relationship with serbia and that it is necessary to take an important step towards reconciliation. a lot has been done here, but it's worth insisting on. of course, visa legalization is also important. it is important to emphasise that the stabilisation and association agreement is also one of the important steps and so are the relations between the authorities and the opposition. so, cooperation is necessary, we need to work on it. it is a pity that kosovo has not succeeded in joining unesco and it is a pity that this situation is being used and in a way blackmailed to prevent it from joining unesco. i also want to stress that the five member states should take their time and consider recognizing kosovo's independence.
madam president, i have a small request. the previous chairman has allowed me one blue card and if alde can get the floor i would kindly ask you to let mr selimovic speak for me. under the catch-the-eye. please give the floor to mr. selimovic on behalf of the alde group.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, i would first like to congratulate mrs valenciano and her colleagues who participated in the observation mission in haiti and who found that the elections were fair. i want to congratulate them for their work in this election process. our election observers, of course, also identified all the difficulties and problems that were going on in the process, which is not surprising in the political and social conditions of this caribbean country, but they finally concluded that the elections in october 2015 were fair, that is, that the basic standards were met by which we can say that the declared results reflect the will of the voters in haiti. therefore, in recognition of the work of our colleagues from the observer mission, and convinced that any other position would call into question the credibility of this parliament and of our election observers, we in the european people's party believe that the results of the first round of the presidential elections must be respected and that the second round must be held as soon as possible in order to ensure that haiti has a new head of state to succeed president martelly. we call on all political actors, state institutions and all relevant political and social actors to exercise prudence and dialogue in order to ensure institutional stability and peace in the country through an inclusive approach, which is particularly important after the expiry of president martelly's mandate on sunday, february 7. haiti is the poorest country in the western hemisphere and one of the poorest in the world, with a poverty rate of 77 percent. the difficult economic and social situation was further exacerbated by the severe earthquake in 2010. faced with such a difficult socioeconomic situation, the citizens of haiti have no more time for political bickering and powerlessness. the citizens of haiti need a government that will implement the structural reforms necessary to complete haiti's democratic transition and that will enable sustainable growth and development, and thereby ultimately eradicate extreme poverty.
madam president, when the catastrophic earthquake struck haiti in january 2010, when over 200,000 people were killed, we were all in solidarity, we all felt compassion for the people and knowing that this was one of the poorest countries in the world, knowing that this country was mostly living in chaos, instability and corruption. we all hoped on october 25th last year that the elections that were both free and that were both regular according to everything that our colleagues and colleagues have seen in haiti, we hoped that finally there would be a new process of stability on the island. unfortunately, that did not happen. europe has helped haiti in its darkest moments. europe stood with haiti in this last election as well. europe must continue because i am sure that our help to these people is very much needed.
mr. president, when i first spoke about libya in this house, i said we know what we're not going to do. we didn't want a dictatorial gaddafi. we know what we want: we want a democratic libya, but we don't know how we're going to get there. do we now know what we really want and especially do we know how to get there? it's unbelievable that a few thousand bandits are creating a complete problem for us in our southern neighborhood, destabilizing our friendly states. we can't solve that problem, and we could simultaneously destroy one, powerful at the time, military force led by gaddafi. i cannot believe that this european union of ours does not have strong enough diplomatic means to solve this problem. we need urgent and radical measures because all accidents from the southern mediterranean come through libya.
madam president, after years of chavista rule, venezuela is on the verge of a humanitarian crisis. the widespread shortage of food includes shortages of basic necessities, which primarily affect the poorest sections of society. we are facing an alarming situation to which we must respond with solidarity, but also understanding and making it clear that this situation is the direct result of the policy pursued by an authoritarian regime which began by imprisoning opposition leaders and now has imprisoned and plunged the entire venezuelan people into misery. venezuelans went to the polls on december 6, in the elections for the new national assembly, and with their vote they demanded a change of course. however, mr. maduro is deaf to the will of the people: he is putting obstacles in the way of the national assembly, tightening his control of the judiciary and seeking to suspend constitutional guarantees and further concentrate power in the executive. so in solidarity with the people of venezuela, we in this parliament are calling for the release of political prisoners, for respect for human rights, for respect for the rule of law that the chavista regime has subjugated. in his ideological blindness, maduro does not want to see new winds blowing in south america, from macri's victory in the homeland of san martín, to the victory of the democratic opposition, in december, in the homeland of bolivar. the populist model is exhausted, but the chavista regime can still do a lot of damage. therefore, we must be vigilant and show solidarity with the people of venezuela in their struggle for freedom.
madam president, the december 6th elections in venezuela have brought new hope. a new atmosphere that will, we hope, together, bring more happiness to this stricken people and more opportunities for the fantastic resources that venezuela has to be used for the benefit of all venezuelans, not just for multinational companies and individuals. what i want to emphasize today is that venezuela faces a choice, either dialogue or chaos, or reconciliation or violence. whoever chooses the wrong side will be responsible for what happens in venezuela. i call on the winners of the elections to be patient, to choose dialogue and reconciliation, and i also call on president maduro if he really wants the good of his people and his country.
madam president, i should like to make it clear from the outset that i am very much in favour of signing this convention and of greater transparency. i expect the dutch presidency to really try to convince the member states to sign this agreement, and thus to make the european union a signatory to the convention. because, let's face it, objectively the isds mechanism is hiding a lot of problems. in this way, we will nevertheless try to bring more transparency and clarity to the contracts. and my country recently signed a preliminary agreement on an energy project. and we already know that we can suffer serious damage because of it. so i am convinced that we must do everything we can to bring more clarity to these agreements, because it is good for our budgets, and as good as it is for our budgets, it is certainly good for the citizens.
madam president, sexual harassment and violence against women is completely unacceptable in all circumstances and must be punished most severely. of course, when it happens in someone's home, it's sometimes impossible to respond because the abuse goes unreported, but there's no justification for avoiding drastically sanctioning violence in public. we are witnessing a growing trend of public abuse of women in europe, which is a direct consequence of the poor integration of immigrants coming from non-european cultural and civilization circles. until the recent incidents in germany, many people were blinded by political correctness, but now it's no longer possible. this kind of anti-civilization behavior is completely unacceptable from a legal and moral standpoint and must be eradicated. the law is the same for everyone and applies to migrants and asylum seekers alike. for those who are not ready to accept this, there should be no place in europe.
madam president, according to a survey conducted in london in 2012, 43 percent of young women said they had experienced harassment in the past year. a survey conducted in france in 2013 found that one in four women had experienced fear on the street, and one in five had experienced verbal abuse on the street. this kind of violence reduces the freedom of movement of women and girls, reduces their ability to participate in school, work, public life. it restricts their access to basic services, cultural and recreational activities and has a negative impact on their health. this debate was triggered by recent events in cologne. so cologne should be a lesson to us all. but in a free europe, we cannot allow our women and girls to be unable to move freely in open spaces. we know that these are concrete activities for concrete crimes, not criminal acts, and therefore, whether someone is a migrant or an asylum seeker, they must be equally accountable before the law. so i think that the law should be applied properly and i think that we should not generally condemn foreigners, or newcomers to the european union, but apply the law. this will help us to avoid making a general judgment against those who immigrate to europe from other lands. so what we need is a rapid integration that we talk about all the time to protect a fundamental value, which is dignity.
madam president, any violence deserves to be condemned. there is no justification for violence, and there are no conditions under which it can be tolerated. unfortunately, women are more often the victims of violence, especially sexual violence, which we often talk about in this parliament. however, the events we have recently faced in several member states go beyond the issues of protecting women and combating violence against women. these horrific events, in addition to the victims, put the perpetrators of these terrible crimes in the spotlight. we cannot generalize and condemn all refugees and migrants for what happened, but we cannot ignore the fact that the violence was not perpetrated by eu citizens. we owe it to all women who have been victims of violence, and to all refugees who have fled war to seek protection in europe, because we must also take care of their safety and dignity. the european union is built on values. the european union believes in the dignity of women. the european union protects women's fundamental freedoms and rights. the european union does not accept violence against women in any form. these are european values which we are obliged to protect and which must be accepted by all those who want to find their home in europe temporarily or permanently. respect for european values, culture and law is a prerequisite for living in the european union. fighting violence while promoting the values we believe in, integration and intercultural dialogue these are the key things we need to work on.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr. president, life on an island is not always easy. as a resident of the croatian island of korcula, i often feel it on my skin. the isolation of the island's transport network and the lack of access to various products and services, especially in the areas of health and education, are just some of the challenges facing the islanders. job shortages due to a drastic decline in manufacturing capacity and the departure of a young population further contribute to the island's grim image. but the challenges facing islands must not be a cause of despair but an incentive to exploit their full potential. to achieve this, we need to attract investors and labour to the islands, and this can only be achieved through incentive tax policies, deregulation and infrastructure investment in partnership with the private sector. i believe we are all in agreement on this, so i would ask you to vote in favour of the amendments which my colleague mr lewer and i have tabled on behalf of the ecr group.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, islands are not just a statistical category. islands are life, but unfortunately, most of life today is a one-way street, because you leave the island. and if islands are not just a nuts 2 or nuts 3 statistical category, i want to highlight because of the many small islands, because of the small and medium islands, where life is even more difficult than on the big islands. croatia is one of those countries that has a really exceptionally large number of inhabited small and medium-sized islands. and in that context, life on the islands is really extremely challenging, extremely difficult in all segments. i would like to stress, in conclusion, that if we lose the identity of our islands, we will lose the identity of many member states, and we will eventually lose the identity of europe which was also largely created on many islands.
mr president, i would like to welcome the commissioner and thank my colleague salvatore cicci for this initiative. as a representative from the land of a thousand islands, i have to express my fear for the survival of the islands, given the increasingly present trend of depopulation of the islands. we need to develop better policies at eu level, but also at national level, to strengthen economic projects on islands. what we are seeing at the moment is that only higher co-financing rates are financing projects funded under cohesion policy, and we need much more than that. why should state aid not be more flexible when it comes to economic projects on the islands? why can't we finance at higher rates, no matter which nuts 2 region the islands are in, economic projects, projects of entrepreneurs who will create jobs, because otherwise the islands will be just a look-out and no one will live on them.
mr president, madam commissioner, there are many problems facing islanders, from the data that the islands on average lag behind the mainland by one fifth of gdp, to depopulation, poor connectivity and access to health care, to the high cost of living, access to education, etc. but gdp is not a measure of the state of the island, because it doesn't include other parameters that make life on the island more complex and difficult. however, each island is a unique natural, cultural and economic entity. we can debate different definitions, but i think that for the european islands we have not done enough to fulfil our obligations under article 174 of the treaty of lisbon. in the institutions of the european union, island policies have never been fully implemented. i come from croatia, a country of over 1 200 islands, and i join the calls for the commission to analyse the cost of living on islands and to adapt financial support and programmes accordingly. we need a strategic programme and a specific eu agenda for the islands to at least partially compensate for what has been missed and help them to realise their full potential.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, i would like to thank first of all president mikhailova and all colleagues from other groups for accepting this initiative. i have devoted my entire political career to strengthening the local and regional self-government units. stronger cities, stronger municipalities, stronger regions have always meant a stronger quality of life for me. what i want to emphasize today is that i am 100% convinced that the principle of subsidiarity has no alternative. we really need to implement the principle of subsidiarity to the full, because it is a well-known european practice that the most decentralised countries, such as denmark, have by far the best standard, the best development. i think the most centralized countries, like my country croatia or like greece, have big problems in development, and there's something going on that's crucial. the key is the absorption power. we have a common situation today that it is precisely the super-centralized states that do not have a quality absorption power. that is why i am all for the possibility of direct access by cities and regions to european funds, because we often have political competition between national authorities or some regional or local authorities. in this way, if we have the possibility of direct access by local and regional authorities to european funds and various other sources of funding at european level, i am sure that we will strengthen the quality and security of life in many cities and in many regions of the european union. i add to this the need for good cross-border cooperation, for good cross-border cooperation financing, where we have excellent experiences, for example ipa adriatico is a fantastic good experience of good cross-border cooperation financing and of course macro-regional cooperation. i conclude with the conviction that it is through this issue that the commission will be more sensitive to local and regional development.
madam president, local and regional authorities are best placed to deal with the problems faced by different environments. and that is why i think they should have a greater role in the management of structural and investment funds. but i am afraid that in some member states such bodies do not have the necessary capacity or experience to manage such programmes. larger and more developed member states, which have for decades been committed to the principle of decentralisation and to strengthening the capacity of local and regional self-government, have a major advantage in this respect over smaller, newer and less developed member states. i therefore believe that the commission should encourage member states to decentralise and exchange best practices in the area of local and regional self-government structures, with the aim of having as many decisions as possible in the foreseeable future that are important for the lives of citizens taken in their immediate vicinity.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on regional development for raising this very important issue. every investment from every fund ends up in some local or regional environment and that's why their participation is important. i therefore agree with and support the proposals of my colleagues that local and regional authorities have direct access to european funds or that rules be set by which central authorities will be obliged to allow local and regional authorities to participate in these funds on equal terms without partisan discrimination and without regional discrimination, which sometimes happens. i also invite the commission to propose measures to enable this mechanism to be monitored. with that i am convinced that the use of european funds would be much better than it is now.
madam president, what i would like to stress is that the fundamental principles of regional policy are partnership and multi-level governance. however, they are often not applied in practice. we have the opportunity to see in many member states operational programmes which are adopted at national level and in which local and regional units are not recognised. that is why i propose that in the future, when we think about the development of cohesion policy, one of the rules we should introduce is that operational programmes are really adopted regionally, that they are regional operational programmes and that ownership of their implementation is at the regional level. what is very important is the inclusion of regional units in economic policies, this is often neglected. we talk about the need to link cohesion policy with the european semester, but without the role of the regional units we cannot even achieve that.
written. because of their proximity to citizens, local and regional authorities play a key role in shaping and implementing eu strategies. local and regional authorities can create new jobs, stimulate entrepreneurial innovation and growth through the eu's cohesion policy. regional and local authorities need to make more efforts to achieve a higher rate of use of the european structural and investment funds. it is therefore essential to address the structural weaknesses of local and regional authorities in the design and implementation of operational programmes in order to give these bodies a better position in cohesion policy. cohesion policy is a good example of multitier governance with a 'bottom-up' approach. in this approach, local and regional authorities in their management of the european structural and investment funds strike a balance between achieving greater economic, social and territorial cohesion and the impact of european union policies at local and regional level. local and regional authorities today face challenges such as globalisation, climate change, energy security and migration flows, and it should be borne in mind that each region has its own specificities and specific needs.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, our resolution supports the clear choice by ukraine to pursue the european path and again draws the attention of the international community to the severe breaches of human rights in crimea, which was illegally annexed by russia. we strongly support the crimean tatars as an indigenous people who face discrimination and abuse because of their opposition to the occupying authorities. the european union must continue its policy of non-recognition of the annexation and maintain the related sanctions against russia. if the russian authorities want to improve their relations with the european union, they should withdraw from the crimea and allow ukraine to re—establish control over its territory. it is vital that international organisations, human rights ngos and the media have unimpeded access to crimea and that their presence is coordinated with the ukrainian authorities. therefore i welcomed the mission of the special representative of the secretary-general on human rights of the council of europe. i also support the proposed ‘geneva plus’ format and believe that the question of crimea’s return to ukraine and efforts to stop the conflict in the east, specifically in the donetsk and luhansk oblasts, should not be decoupled. we know that the causes of these two problems are the same.
he is a member of the 'parliament of the russian federation'. he was involved in the 'crimean tatar separatist' movement in crimea. he was involved in the 'bolshevik' movement in crimea. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. anyone who has in any way opposed the local authorities, including religious communities that have been denied freedom of assembly, is denied the possibility of renewing their identity documents. the european parliament condemns such a policy of human rights violations, discrimination against the population, and the denial and non-recognition of the right to renew identity documents (passport), especially for crimean tatars by the russian federation, as they are an ethnic minority group in these territories. the eu calls on the russian federation to release prisoners including oleg sentov and olexandra kolchenko as well as other activists arrested in the crimea. the eu also calls on russia to investigate all forms of violence against prisoners in the crimea and those deported to russia.
'he was the first president of the russian federation from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015 and the first president of the russian federation from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2016. in march 2014, the ukrainian government announced that it would not participate in the annexation of crimea. the so-called 'government of the donetsk people's republic' has been involved in the illegal annexation of crimea and crimea by russia. therefore, i condemn all human rights violations against the population of crimea, especially against crimean tatars who do not accept the imposed rule of the so-called local authorities, especially under the pretext of fighting extremism and terrorism.
madam chairman, the disappearance of five employees of the same publishing house, which is considered critical of china, is a source of horror in hong kong. the booksellers are taking the political stuff off the shelves. publishers, owners of stores that sell books banned on the continent, feel threatened. the five missing worked for a company known for its books that were unfavorable to the chinese government. the case of the publisher li bo is of particular concern. he disappeared from his home in hong kong, unlike the other four. three employees went missing while in southern china, a fourth in thailand. the practice of abduction and forcible removal in china is unacceptable. it's our duty to provide an open space for different opinions to be heard. china is trampling on the established principle of one country, two systems, and by this behavior, it is trampling on freedom of speech and the dignity of people, which is unacceptable.
mr president, regarding paragraph 7 of the oral amendment, it is just a technical correction of part of the sentence which was agreed during the negotiations; it simply sticks with the text that was agreed among all the groups in the negotiations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report on serbia, as i consider the process of european integration of serbia to be extremely important for the citizens of serbia, but also for the preservation of stability in the area of south-east europe. i welcome the opening of negotiations and chapters 32 (financial supervision) and 35 (other issues item i: process of normalisation of relations with kosovo) at the intergovernmental conference in brussels on 14 december 2015 and the continued commitment of serbia to the process of european integration; serbia's progress in terms of business environment, budget deficit reduction and labour market; progress on economic reforms; constructive approach to the migration crisis; progress in the field of justice; better cooperation between government and civil society; adoption of a comprehensive public administration reform action plan; commitment to the development of a specific action plan for national minorities that will allow further progress; further engagement of serbia in building good neighbourly relations with kosovo; continued cooperation with neighbouring countries, improvement of bilateral peace and dispute resolution. on the other hand, there is the problem of opening negotiating chapters 23 and 24, then the weak progress in improving the situation regarding freedom of speech and media, corruption and organized crime are still widespread. there is a problem of adopting the acquis in the field of transport and energy infrastructure, implementing legislation on waste, creating a legal framework for participation in the egtc.
written. ‒ the commission's report highlights the importance of serbia's progress in eu accession, especially in addressing the refugee crisis. serbia has taken certain steps towards opening the first chapters for accession to the eu in 2004, but the situation is still unsatisfactory, especially with regard to the implementation of all guaranteed rights of national minorities, in particular croats, the return of cultural property and the discovery of the fate of missing persons from the civil war. furthermore, judicial reforms and a strengthened fight against corruption and organised crime are needed, as well as strengthening freedom of movement and the independence of the media. the report placed particular emphasis on the need for constructive agreements and talks with kosovo. i supported the commission's report because in the process of joining the eu, serbia must implement reforms that will democratise society and contribute to normalising relations with croatia and other eu member states.
written. ‒ i believe that the successful continuation of serbia's accession negotiations with the european union is of crucial importance not only for the wider european community, but also for the entire region. these negotiations will make a significant contribution to the stabilisation processes within south-east europe and provide an encouraging example to neighbouring candidate countries. however, serbia must respect the acquis of the european union. ensuring the rights of national minorities, and in particular their right to education and media programmes in their mother tongue, is of paramount importance, and serbia must therefore take concrete steps in this direction and respect the rights of croats in serbia. furthermore, issues of jurisdiction for war crimes committed during the homeland war as well as the problem of missing persons and the recovery of cultural goods and property are of particular interest to croatia. serbia has not made progress in this respect. successful resolution of these issues would be a clear indication that serbia is ready for integration with the european union and for deeper cooperation with neighbouring countries. i supported the 2015 progress report on serbia, as it points to important issues that serbia still has to solve in its path to the eu, but also in its relations with neighbouring countries.
written. ‒ i would like to thank my colleague mr mcallister for his constructive report on the state of play and progress made by serbia in the past year. improved legislative framework to be followed by effective implementation, participation in peacekeeping missions, progress on the euro-integration path, are just some of them. at the same time, this report covers much of the content of last year's report, which means that serbia still has a lot of work to do. threatened media freedom, insufficiently effective fight against corruption, progress in the rule of law, opposition participation in democratic processes, respect for human and minority rights, alignment with eu foreign policy are among the 'to-do' lists that serbia must address without delay. the opening of negotiations with serbia marks the beginning of a 'positive push' to seriously transform a number of sectors in the neighbouring country. as highlighted in the report, constructive contribution to relations with neighbours and the resolution of remaining bilateral issues such as border demarcation, missing persons, succession, minority rights in vojvodina and the law on the prosecution of war crimes is also of paramount importance in this process. by addressing the problems of the past, we are opening up space for discussion and cooperation on issues of, i hope, a shared european future.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ on 28 june 2013, the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia. the first intergovernmental conference was held on 21 january 2014, the analytical review was completed in march 2015 and serbia convened a negotiating team in september 2015. i welcome the progress on economic reforms, which has improved serbia's budgetary situation, and i call on the commission to continue to support the government in its plans to implement further reforms, in particular in addressing fiscal imbalances and reforms in key sectors of the economy. corruption and organised crime are widespread in the region and also represent an obstacle to serbia's democratic, social and economic development. i would like to stress the importance of the role of civil society organisations in a democratic society. i express concern at the fact that no progress has been made in improving the situation with regard to freedom of speech and the media. it is necessary to create adequate representation of minorities in local, regional and national representative and administrative bodies, to ensure the use of minority languages in the media and education, and it is important that serbia facilitates the tracing of missing persons and continues to cooperate in the prosecution of war crimes with the icty. i call on serbia to review the contested law, which unreasonably extends jurisdiction to the territory of neighbouring states, including two eu member states, and thus leads to legal uncertainty and jeopardises good neighbourly relations, and to establish, together with the commission and neighbouring states, a legal system in line with european legal standards.
‒ on 28 june 2013, the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia. the european commission has identified in its 2015 report that serbia has made progress towards european integration. in january 2015, serbia assumed the chairmanship of the osce. serbia has also taken important steps towards normalising relations with kosovo, but further efforts are needed to achieve a final settlement. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the european parliament called on serbia to align its foreign and security policy with the european union's policy, including its policy towards russia. the eu also welcomes the active participation of serbia in international peacekeeping operations. the commission considers that the aid is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. the report encourages serbia to continue to cooperate with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia in the spirit of reconciliation and good neighbourly relations. i support the motion for a resolution with its recommendations and guidelines for further progress by serbia towards european integration. as one of the key countries of the western balkans, serbia's involvement in european integration ensures security in the region and enables better neighbourly relations.
written. ‒ i support this statement which provides support for kosovo's european integration process. the kosovo authorities must continue to pursue the necessary reforms with determination, in particular on strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption and organised crime, discrimination and unemployment. media freedom is also an area where there is a need to work persistently to make the media independent and free to express themselves.
the european parliament supports the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo of 27 october 2015 as the first contractual relationship. the stabilisation and association agreement paves the way for kosovo's integration into the eu, provides a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms, and allows for the establishment of cooperation with the eu in a number of areas with a view to enhancing political dialogue and closer trade integration as well as strengthening relations with neighbouring countries. i supported the resolution which specifically stressed the need to provide additional assistance to young entrepreneurs in kosovo under the ipa, including measures to facilitate networking with entrepreneurs from eu member states and the inclusion of kosovo entrepreneurs' associations in the european confederation of young entrepreneurs, especially after the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement.
written. ‒ i voted for the 2015 kosovo report, given the importance of the situation in kosovo for stability in the region of south-east europe. in particular, i welcome the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo on 27 october 2015, the adoption by the commission of a package of measures to support reforms and regional cooperation in the western balkans; the progress made in 2015 towards an agreement on the normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia; in particular, the agreement on the association/joint municipality with the serb majority in kosovo; progress in the implementation of the action plan on visa liberalisation; the continuation of the discussion on a framework agreement to allow kosovo to participate in eu programmes; the adoption of the gender equality act, etc. the report also highlights certain problems: the approximately 300 kosovo nationals who have joined the ranks of jihadists in syria and iraq; the limited progress made in the area of freedom of expression in the past year; the need for additional efforts to protect and guarantee in practice the rights of all ethnic minorities in kosovo through the full implementation of relevant legislation; and the particularly acute problem of the lack of visible progress in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime.
written. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the report on kosovo for 2015. i think it is important that the european union recognises the efforts made by kosovo in dialogue with serbia, in exposing war crimes, in fighting terrorism and in stopping mass illegal immigration to western european countries. the continuation of kosovo's european path, like that of other countries in south-eastern europe, is one of the important factors for achieving peace and stability in that part of europe, and i therefore welcome the signing of the stability and association agreement between the european union and the republic of kosovo. i also express my hope that, after the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement, the kosovo authorities will continue to implement the reforms necessary for closer relations with the european union, work on respect for human rights, strengthening democracy and freedom of speech, dialogue with neighbours and the normalisation of interethnic relations in kosovo.
written. ‒ i would like to thank my colleague, ms lunaček, for her report which gives a comprehensive overview of the situation in kosovo and the progress made in the past year. the most important moment is certainly the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement, which we have recently ratified here in the european parliament. it is a kind of reward for kosovo's commitment to full membership and a european future. but further progress will depend on the commitment and constructive cooperation of all political actors, which is not the case now. once again, unfortunately, the 'regional' problem of opposition participation in parliament is being realised. the legislative framework has been improved over the past year, the success of which will depend primarily on implementation, but organised crime, levels of corruption, high unemployment, especially among young people, and a threatened free media remain strongly present. the measures adopted to combat terrorism and radicalisation, the reduction in the number of illegal migrants and asylum seekers in the eu, and the progress made in meeting the visa waiver criteria for kosovo citizens are to be commended. i hope by the time the next report comes in, that's a closed case, too. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo was signed on 27 october 2015 and ratified by the assembly of kosovo on 2 november 2015. the stabilisation and association agreement paves the way for kosovo's integration into the eu, offers a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms, and allows for the establishment of cooperation with the eu in a number of areas with a view to enhancing political dialogue and closer trade integration, as well as strengthening relations with neighbouring countries and contributing to stability in the region. therefore, i call on the government of kosovo to focus on implementing the comprehensive reforms necessary to meet its obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement and to follow the eu's common security and defence policy. it is important for kosovo to complete the legislative framework for the civil service and to fully implement the strategic framework for public administration and the action plan. the authorities should promote professionalisation on the basis of merit in all public institutions and guarantee the sound financial management of public institutions and the transparency of the control exercised by the assembly over the implementation of the budget. progress in labour market reforms, together with reforms in the education system, is crucial to tackling high unemployment and low labour market participation rates.
‒ to date, 110 of the 193 united nations member states have recognised kosovo, including 23 of the 28 member states of the european union. the stabilisation and association agreement between kosovo and the european union was signed on 27 october 2015, as the first contractual relationship. this treaty paves the way for kosovo's integration into the eu and allows for the establishment of cooperation with the union. a framework agreement to enable kosovo to participate in european union programmes is being discussed. parliament welcomed the progress made in 2015 towards an agreement in the framework of the normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia. the council also expressed concern at the lack of visible progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime, which remain a major problem. the kosovo government must demonstrate that the country is systematically fighting corruption at all levels. kosovo also faces the problem of high unemployment, especially among young people and women, and the general discrimination against women in society and in the labour market is reprehensible. i support the motion for a resolution and its recommendations for the further integration of kosovo into the european community of nations. the inclusion of kosovo in european integration is essential for ensuring peace and security in the region.
written. ‒ i believe that few people in the european union, but also in kosovo, think that the process of european integration of the youngest european country will go smoothly. kosovo faces major challenges in establishing genuine democracy, the rule of law and a market economy, fighting corruption, organised crime and terrorism, and protecting civil and media freedoms. in all these areas, kosovo is expected to make great strides that pristina must make, first and foremost for its citizens and their future prosperity. but although the day of kosovo's accession to the eu is still far off, i don't think it's right to go with a fig in our pocket. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime. it is time for all of us to finally acknowledge that a free and independent kosovo is a reality, because any other approach would be a reflection of hypocrisy that should have no place among friends and partners. that's why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support this statement welcoming the signing of the libyan political agreement to form a national government. reforms, consolidating the rule of law, fighting terrorism, improving the human rights situation and the phenomenon of migration, fighting human trafficking, are just some of the great challenges that await libya in the future, so this is a moment when a big step forward has been made in the fight for a better future for this country.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution under rule 123 on the situation in libya, as this motion fulfils the aspiration to establish peace and stability in the country and to protect all libyan citizens. libya had the largest arsenal on the southern coast of the mediterranean sea, which became the main source of illicit arms trade and a supply zone for all terrorists and extremists in the sahel (mali, niger, nigeria) and opposition movements in sudan, chad and syria. this proposal is a key step in the implementation of the libyan political agreement, and i therefore support the call for the international community, the un, the eu, the au and the arab league member states to stand ready to support the libyans in their efforts to successfully implement the agreement, while respecting democracy, human rights and civil liberties.
written. ‒ the human rights situation in libya is deteriorating, with cases of arbitrary detention, abductions, unlawful killings, torture and violence against civilians, journalists, officials, politicians and human rights defenders, for which all parties are responsible, becoming almost daily occurrences. since libya was anarchy, it became a transit area for human trafficking to europe's southern border. the country hosts hundreds of thousands of migrants and asylum seekers of various nationalities, many of whom live in tragic conditions and thus represent a target group for smugglers. it is important that the international community redoubles its humanitarian assistance to meet the urgent needs of those most affected by the conflict in libya, which is particularly encouraged and supported by this resolution.
written. - i welcome this resolution and support it fully. the libyan civil war is claiming civilian lives every day, and women and children are also exposed to violence. humanitarian disaster and continuing conflict are forcing civilians to flee to europe, with many losing their lives. on the other hand, the european union is facing a serious refugee crisis today, which is largely the result of both the civil war and the suffering of civilians in libya. i believe that the european union should be more actively involved in the process of reconciliation between the warring parties and support through diplomatic efforts the creation of a government of national unity, which is the first step towards ending the conflict and normalizing life in this north african country. i am concerned about the increased activity of terrorist groups such as daesh and al-qaeda, which have found a fertile ground for their activities in the political vacuum created in libya. as extremism and terrorism are a threat not only to libya but also to the countries in its vicinity and to europe, i believe that resolving the libyan crisis and establishing a lasting peace is of great importance for the european union and the security of its citizens.
written. ‒ in libya, the deterioration of the state governance, human rights and humanitarian situation has been driven by the outbreak of violence and an increasingly unstable political environment. in january 2016, the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) estimated that some 435,000 people were displaced across libya. in addition, there are hundreds of thousands of refugees and asylum seekers of various nationalities, many of whom live in difficult conditions and whose numbers are increasing. unfortunately, libya has also become a transit area for human trafficking, resulting in the deaths of thousands of people trying to cross the mediterranean sea to reach europe. in view of the catastrophic circumstances we are witnessing in libya, i welcome the signing of the libyan political agreement on the formation of a government of national unity as the only legitimate government of libya consisting of a cabinet and a presidential council, headed by fayas al-sarai, and supported by other state institutions, including the house of representatives and the council of state. in the context of the implementation of the agreement, particular attention should be paid to the obligation of all parties in libya to protect civilians at all times and to treat all detainees in accordance with international human rights and humanitarian law. i also welcome the eu's strong commitment to the achievement of libya's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, as well as the announced €100 million assistance package.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ since august 2014, both political bodies (the internationally recognised house of representatives in tobruk and the new general national congress that emerged in tripoli) claim to be running the country and both support several heavily armed paramilitary units linked to regions, cities and tribes of different affiliations. libya has become the headquarters of daesh's largest forces outside the middle east and forms its bridgehead on the southern mediterranean coast, posing the greatest threat to neighbouring countries in the sahel and sahara region, but also in terms of terrorist activities and to europe. a secure and politically stable libya is essential not only for the libyan people but also for the security of the entire region and the european union. i welcome the libyan political agreement signed on 17 december 2015 which was endorsed by the un and the presidency council. i call on the commission and the european external action service, which coordinates the action of the member states in libya, to focus their support on state and institution building and, together with the member states, the un, nato and regional partners, to help with security sector reform and the creation of effective national military and police forces under the control of the government of national unity, capable of monitoring the entire libyan territory and its leaders and securing the state borders.
written. ‒ since the fall of dictator muammar gaddafi in 2011, libya has been in a volatile and deeply divided situation. despite parliamentary elections held in june 2014, the country is divided between two opposing governments based in tripoli and tobruk. daesh and other extremist organisations are exploiting the political vacuum and lack of a stable government, which threatens peace and security throughout the region. if the spread of influence of extremist groups continues, it could pose a major threat to the security of the region and the european union. human rights continue to be violated, so cases of kidnapping, extrajudicial killings, and torture continue to occur. the european parliament is extremely concerned about the humanitarian crisis in libya and calls on all parties to stop the violence and to refrain from further divisive actions and to find a solution through political dialogue. i support the proposals set out in this debate because i believe that coordinated efforts by member states should be directed towards building strong institutions that will ensure a stable state. the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective security system in the region, including a comprehensive and effective security system for the whole of the country.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution which stresses that the situation in libya stems from a series of serious errors that began with the military intervention in 2011 when several international actors made clear their intention to support military intervention against isis/daesh in libya as soon as a new government is formed. i am deeply concerned about the current situation and believe that the future government should explore the possibility of introducing an institutional structure guaranteeing a certain degree of autonomy to regional and local authorities, as is the case in federal forms of government. i also believe that regional actors must not act in a way that could deepen divisions and jeopardise libya's transition to a stable, inclusive and democratic country. i strongly condemn the latest terrorist attacks and call on member states, in cooperation with the un support mission, to assist libya and support the development of a comprehensive strategy, and to support the transition and the new government.
written. - i support this question about the islands. i myself come from a rich land of a thousand islands, so i understand the specifics and problems facing islanders. i think that the commission must give an adequate answer to the questions raised in the text, because there are indeed permanent obstacles and isolation in these areas and there are already constant cases of the death of many islands. we have to find a way to keep the population on the islands, because otherwise isolation will lead to the complete extinction of the islands and the complete displacement of their population in the future.
written. ‒ i voted for the resolution on the islands on the basis of an oral question, as i was one of the initiators of the question to the commission and of the preparation of the european parliament resolution, which i supported as coordinator of the alde group in the regi committee. i believe that the eu needs to address this issue more concretely, given that island citizens have different and more difficult living conditions than eu citizens living in land-based regions. of course, a clear distinction needs to be made between the different types of islands in the eu, which vary in size, population, distance from the mainland, and some of the islands represent member states. in addition, there is a different sensitivity to this issue, as some member states either do not have islands or are uninhabited and thus do not constitute a relevant policy issue per se. i am particularly interested in highlighting the problem of islands, such as croatia, which have a problem of depopulation and numerous difficulties such as lack of public services, expensive goods or services. i therefore fully agree that the eu should also show additional sensitivity through cohesion policy and that its measures should allow for balanced social and economic development and the preservation of the quality of life of citizens living on islands.
written. ‒ as it is a question of addressing the everyday problems faced by the inhabitants of island regions, i believe that clear measures of support for nuts-2 and nuts-3 regions are needed. nuts-2 covers island regions with a population between 800 000 and 3 000 000 inhabitants, while nuts-3 covers island regions with a population between 150 000 and 800 000 inhabitants. the commission will continue to support the development of the cotonou agreement, in particular through the development of the cotonou agreement, the cotonou agreement and the cotonou agreement. the islands classified as nuts 2 and nuts 3 island regions have common and specific permanent characteristics and elements which clearly distinguish them from land-based regions. the commission has also taken the view that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection,
written. ‒ there are many problems faced by islanders, from the fact that on average islands lag behind the mainland in terms of gdp, to depopulation, poor connectivity and access to healthcare, to the high cost of living, access to education, etc. but gdp is not a sufficient measure of the state of the island because it does not include other parameters that make life on the island more complex and difficult. however, each island is a unique natural, cultural and economic entity. we can debate different definitions, but i think that for the european islands we have not done enough to fulfil our obligations under article 174 of the treaty of lisbon. in the eu institutions, island policies have never been fully implemented. i come from croatia, a country of over 1200 islands, and i join the calls on the commission to analyse the cost of living on islands and to adapt financial support and programmes accordingly. we need a strategic programme and a specific eu agenda for the islands to at least partially compensate for what has been missed and help them to realise their full potential. in conclusion, i support this resolution because it provides a good basis for further action and improvement of european policies towards islands. i also hope that the commission will react and respond to the requests it makes as soon as possible.
written. one of the commission's tasks should be to provide a clear definition of the types of geographical, natural and demographic permanent handicaps that may affect island regions, taking into account article 174 of the tfeu. it would also be of great help for the commission to explain how it plans to implement article 174 of the said agreement, which deals with the permanent handicaps of island regions which hinder the development of the region in terms of natural development and the achievement of economic, social and territorial cohesion. the eu's islands are peripheral regions located on the eu's external borders and are particularly vulnerable to the challenges facing the eu, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and exposure to rising migration. the european islands contribute to the diversity of the union in an ecological and cultural sense and therefore better connectivity through sea routes, improved access to ports and better air services are essential. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. it is important that this resolution helps activities in croatia to connect the islands to the mainland and to each other, and to use all available instruments for financing the development of the islands from eu funds.
written. ‒ island regions have common and enduring specific characteristics that distinguish them from continental areas. the eu islands are also peripheral regions located on the eu's external borders and are particularly sensitive to the challenges europe is currently facing, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and, especially for the southern areas, exposure to increasing migration flows. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the islands, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market. the islands face constraints, but they also have territorial potential that should be exploited as an opportunity for development, growth and job creation. in this context, in addition to seasonal tourism, the development of sustainable tourism, with a focus on the promotion of cultural heritage and specific craft economic activities, is also mentioned, as is the enormous potential of ocean, wind and solar energy and the possibility for islands to become important sources of alternative energy, as energy autonomous as possible and, above all, to guarantee their inhabitants a cheaper energy supply.
written. ‒ the islands of the european union can be considered as peripheral regions situated on the external borders of the union. as such, they are particularly sensitive to the challenges europe is currently facing, such as globalisation, climate change, energy supply. the southern regions are particularly vulnerable to migration waves. the islands contribute to the union's environmental and cultural diversity. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. parliament called on the member states, but also on regional and local authorities, to play an important role in island development in order to ensure the sustainable development of the islands of the european union. i support the proposals put forward in this debate because i believe that islands have the potential that should be exploited for development, growth and job creation, not only in the context of seasonal tourism but also in the context of sustainable tourism. the focus should be on the promotion of cultural heritage and specific craft activities. it is also worth noting the huge potential of sea, wind and solar energy, which could enable the islands to become important and autonomous sources of alternative energy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds on the basis of an oral question, given that i am the initiator of the question to the commission and the preparation of a resolution by the european parliament. i think this is a very important issue and the european commission has not been very much involved in the position of local and regional authorities. although the question is oriented towards the european funds, i believe that this is only part of the problem in which local and regional authorities are subordinate to the state administration and where local and regional authorities have been deprived of rights and resources by the central authorities in recent years, especially as a result of the economic crisis. subsidiarity implies that everything that can be done at lower levels of government should be left to lower levels of government, including the necessary resources. in addition, subsidiarity also strengthens democratic relations, as it brings government and decision-making closer to citizens who are better informed and can more easily participate in decision-making. today, the situation varies from country to country, from highly centralized to decentralized states. it is precisely decentralisation that is one of the prerequisites for better economic and development outcomes.
written. ‒ cohesion policy is based on the principle of partnership and multi-level governance, and it is necessary to involve the local level and align it with national objectives in decision-making and strategic documents, working on a 'bottom-up' and 'bottom-down' principle. it is essential to provide support for the development of additional administrative capacity to enable local and regional authorities to participate in cohesion policy. currently, local and regional authorities are facing major challenges such as globalisation, climate change, energy security, the wave of migration and accelerated urbanisation. local and regional authorities are closer to eu citizens, have a better understanding of citizens' needs and the services that need to be introduced. each country should aim to change national operational programmes to regional ones and to involve local and regional authorities as much as possible in defining investment priorities. given the importance of involving local units in the definition and implementation of cohesion and economic policy with a view to achieving sustainable economic growth and development, i supported the motion for a resolution by rapporteur mihaylov.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution because i believe that local and regional authorities should be given greater powers when it comes to the use of the european structural and investment funds. the commission has also proposed that the new rules on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women should be amended to take account of the new rules on equal treatment for women and men. support is needed for regional and local authorities to strengthen their role and influence in applying for european structural and investment funds, in particular for the period 2014-2020, which i believe will result in economic growth and sustainable job creation. according to the figures of the financial report of the european commission, in 2014 croatia withdrew a total of eur 584,3 million from the budget of the european union, compared to eur 290 million in 2013. the most withdrawn from the eu budget last year was for economic, social and territorial cohesion, at €313.9 million. given the numbers and opportunities offered by the drawdown of european union funds, i believe that by encouraging greater initiative, especially by local and regional authorities, many projects could be realised that would have a positive impact on the whole local or regional community.
written. ‒ the eu's cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period remains the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and the opportunity to create a sustainable growth process that would move more 'bottom-up', supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, and thus improve the quality of life of citizens in the eu's regions and lead to solidarity and more successful development. i believe that regional and local authorities are closer to citizens and have a better understanding of local needs and policies and initiatives designed to improve citizens' lives in the areas of employment, innovation, health, environment, energy, transport. smart cities and smart specialisation strategies are two innovations that have been embraced by policymakers and translated into concrete eu policies and initiatives. about 70% of europe's population lives in cities and urban agglomerations. they are the engine of economic development and will also determine the future strength of the eu at global level, which is why their exceptional role in the european structural and investment funds needs to be recognised and they need to be supported to participate as effectively as possible in the mobilisation and use of these funds.
written. ‒ the eu's cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period remains the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and is an opportunity to create a sustainable growth process that would be more 'bottom-up', supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, and thus improving the quality of life of citizens in the eu regions and leading to solidarity and more successful development. the aim of cohesion policy is to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between the member states of the european union and their regions through a comprehensive strategy. new initiatives of integrated territorial investment and community-led local development represent major changes in the capacity of local stakeholders to use funding flows and plan well-targeted local initiatives. multi-level governance supports the eu's core policy objectives of economic growth, social progress and sustainable development, and strengthens the democratic dimension of the european union and increases the efficiency of its political action. urban areas play an increasing role in today's world and eu policies have an important role to play in establishing the right framework within which european urban areas can unlock their own growth potential, and i supported the report.
the european union's cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 is the main investment instrument covering all regions of the union. it is an opportunity for local and regional economies to create new jobs, entrepreneurial and innovative innovation, and sustainable growth. because of their proximity to the people, local and regional authorities play a key role in shaping and implementing eu strategies. parliament believes that multilevel governance is the basis for achieving political objectives in the union such as economic development, social progress, sustainable development and ensuring the democratic dimension of the union. however, local and regional authorities today face challenges such as globalisation, climate change, energy security and migration flows and it should be taken into account that each region has its own specificities and specific needs. i support the proposals put forward in this debate because i believe that the union's cohesion policy is a good example of a multi-level, bottom-up approach to governance in which regional and local authorities have a good way of linking the union's objectives of greater economic, social and territorial cohesion with the real impact of union policies on the ground.
written. ‒ i support this statement on the humanitarian situation in yemen. the situation in this war-torn country is catastrophic and i believe we should focus on addressing the humanitarian situation in that country. the bombing and blockade must stop immediately so that aid can be provided to civilians suffering a real humanitarian disaster from the siege of war-torn cities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in yemen because the humanitarian situation is truly worrying and reaches the limits of an alarming state of affairs. 80% of the population is in need of urgent humanitarian assistance, as infrastructure, schools and hospitals are destroyed on a daily basis by airstrikes or shelling, there is a lack of basic medical care for the population, and there is a very poor state of sanitation and lack of food and water. this proposal calls for an immediate halt to attacks, in particular on medical facilities, and requires all parties to make clear commitments to avoid attacks on civilians and civilian objects in accordance with international humanitarian law and human rights.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen because the military intervention led by saudi arabia, using internationally banned cluster bombs, has led to a catastrophic humanitarian situation for an already poor population, has serious consequences for the region and is a threat to international peace and security. the current crisis in yemen is the result of the successive failures of governments to meet the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. the numerous inter-tribal tensions in the country, widespread insecurity and the difficult economic situation further exacerbated the outbreak of conflict that resulted in a humanitarian crisis. this is an untenable situation. the crisis therefore needs to be resolved quickly and efficiently, as this resolution that i have supported calls for.
written. ‒ the political and humanitarian crisis in yemen threatens to destabilise the entire region and i therefore consider it extremely important to achieve a lasting ceasefire as soon as possible. the suffering of civilians in this country engulfed in bloody conflict, where millions of people are in need of humanitarian aid, must not leave us indifferent. the first thing i would like to draw attention to is the plight of children in yemen, who are one of the most vulnerable groups affected by the humanitarian crisis in yemen and who are threatened by food and medicine shortages. since the beginning of the conflict, cases of torture of civilians, especially members of religious minorities, attacks on journalists, their enforced disappearance, etc. have been frequent. the establishment of a lasting peace and the start of a democratic process in yemen can only contribute to ending human rights violations. the biggest victim of the current situation in the country is the yemeni civilian population, who already live in difficult conditions. the european parliament's foreign affairs committee will next week have the opportunity to communicate directly with the saudi leadership and to try to directly influence the situation on the ground, which has been exacerbated by the saudi-led military intervention in yemen. it is for this reason that i welcome the postponement of the vote on the motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen and hope that the visit of the european parliament delegation will contribute to resolving the humanitarian crisis in yemen before the adoption of this resolution.
written. ‒ the news and images coming out of yemen lately are catastrophic: bombings in sana'a, the center, shops and schools, houthi rebels have besieged taiz, yemen's third largest city, and are preventing the delivery of humanitarian aid. there are large numbers of civilian prisoners in dire need of drinking water, food, medical treatment and other vital assistance and protection. i express my deep concern at the alarming deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen. a coordinated humanitarian response under un leadership is needed, and all countries must contribute to meeting humanitarian needs. at the same time, i support the european parliament's position that only a negotiated political solution can restore peace and preserve the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen.
written. ‒ the violent extremist ideology of isis, its terrorist acts, the continued heavy systematic and widespread attacks on civilians, violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, including those committed on religious or ethnic grounds, the destruction of cultural heritage and the trafficking of cultural property represent a global and unprecedented threat to international peace and security, as confirmed by un security council resolution 2249/2015. i therefore urge all states signatories to the un convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide, signed in paris on 9 december 1948, and other relevant international agreements, and in particular the eu member states, to prevent war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. i also call on syria and iraq to accept the jurisdiction of the international criminal court and i support the resolution.
written. ‒ the humanitarian situation in yemen is extremely complex. human rights violations are, unfortunately, the rule, not the exception. the practice has been going on for a long time and has intensified with the rise of islamism in the country. real women are on a very low level. the brutal mistreatment of minorities is rampant. the un analysis in yemen is a major humanitarian crisis and action is urgently needed. we should keep in mind that yemen is a very poor country that is a victim of geopolitical interests of neighboring countries. i support the adoption of this resolution because the struggle for human rights, the rule of law and the dignity of the individual knows no borders.
written. - the current situation in yemen is a cause for great concern. yemen is experiencing an unprecedented humanitarian disaster 15 million yemenis, or more than half the population, are in need of humanitarian assistance, primarily food, and the lives of several million people are at risk due to the inability to provide emergency assistance. the commission should also be able to provide information on the situation in yemen, including on the number of civilians killed and injured in the conflict, and on the number of civilian casualties. the european union should contribute to addressing the needs of the yemeni people in order to enable the urgent delivery of humanitarian assistance and essential supplies, including fuel, food and basic necessities. it is therefore necessary to further facilitate commercial maritime access to yemen. i also express my deep concern at the increasing violations of human rights, including the constant attacks on journalists and media outlets, the use of children in armed conflict, the abduction of people, in contravention of the convention against torture and the abuse and detention of religious minorities. i believe that the motion for a resolution which i have tabled with my colleagues from the ecr can contribute to improving the situation in yemen.
written. - i support this statement which seeks to show that it is not only christians who are being subjected to the crimes of the terrorist group isis. the yazidis, the secular groups, the sunnis, the sufis, the alawites, the lgbt community, all of these are groups that have been subjected to brutal atrocities because they don't accept the rigorous wahhabi interpretation of islam that isis invokes. therefore, i believe that the groups mentioned should also be included in the text of the resolution because this terrorist group should be responsible for all the crimes it commits.
written. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by the so-called islamic state because i believe that crimes against humanity and war crimes should be punished. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of cases of fraud in the union, the number of cases of fraud in the member states and the number of cases of fraud in the union. several un reports indicate that areas under the control of isis/da'esh are experiencing war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide directed against christians, yazidis and other minorities. all eu member states are called upon to make their own efforts to protect persecuted peoples and their heritage, and i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ the so-called islamic state is committing mass killings and violating international human rights and humanitarian law. some of these acts, according to un experts, amount to war crimes, crimes against humanity, and even genocide. the terrible violence and abuse perpetrated by the so-called islamic state is not only affecting religious minorities, but anyone who disagrees with their ideology. the draft resolution strongly condemns the serious violations of international law and the destruction of religious and cultural sites. the resolution also stresses the importance of all parties in syria and iraq being held accountable for violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law, including genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, in accordance with international standards. for all the above reasons and the need to bring all violations of international law to justice, i have supported this resolution.
written. isis/daesh is committing genocide against christians and yazidis and other religious and ethnic minorities who do not agree with its interpretation of islam and therefore action is needed in line with the united nations convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide says the resolution on the systematic mass killing of religious minorities by the so-called islamic state adopted by the european parliament today. in the cradle of christianity, where christianity has existed for nearly two thousand years, it is now facing extinction. isis is systematically and deliberately intimidating and attacking, killing and expelling christians while destroying their churches, in order to make an entire religion disappear from the middle east. it's called genocide. the european parliament, under the principle of the responsibility to protect, has an obligation to call these crimes by their right name and to call for effective action to protect persecuted christians, which has been neglected by the states on whose territory the genocide is taking place. parliament therefore calls on iraq and syria to accept the jurisdiction of the international criminal court and on the international community and all countries signatory to the genocide convention to do everything in their power to bring to justice all perpetrators who have in any way participated in these heinous crimes.
‒ un security council resolution 2249 (2015) of 20 november 2015 confirmed that the violent extremist ideology of the so-called isis/daesh, its terrorist acts, the continued and widespread and severe attacks on civilians, the violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, including those committed on religious or ethnic grounds, the eradication of cultural heritage and the trafficking of cultural property, constitute a global and as yet unrecognised threat to international peace and security. genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes concern all eu member states determined to cooperate in order to prevent such crimes and end impunity for the perpetrators in accordance with council common position 2003/444/cfsp. i therefore support the european parliament's reaction in the form of this resolution and join the calls for respect for the inalienable right of all ethnic and religious minorities and others living in iraq and syria to continue to live in their historical and traditional homes in dignity, equality and security and to practice their religion freely without any coercion, violence or discrimination.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the violent extremist ideology of isis, its terrorist acts, the continued heavy systematic and widespread attacks on civilians, violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, including those committed on religious or ethnic grounds, the destruction of cultural heritage and the trafficking of cultural property represent a global and unprecedented threat to international peace and security, as confirmed by un security council resolution 2249 (2015). genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, wherever and whenever they occur, must not go unpunished and effective prosecution of such acts must be ensured by taking measures at national level, by strengthening international cooperation and through the international criminal court and the international criminal court. under international law, all individuals have the right to live according to their conscience and to be free to believe and change their religious and non-religious beliefs. it is therefore important to guarantee the necessary safety conditions and opportunities for all those who have been forced to leave their homeland or have been forcibly displaced, to enable them to exercise their right to return to their homeland as soon as possible, to preserve their homes, land, property, as well as churches and religious and cultural sites in order to have the opportunity for a life and a future in dignity.
written. ‒ every day we witness the persecution and killing of religious minorities across the territory controlled by isis. islamist brutality knows no bounds, and the victims are guilty only because they are different from the aggressors. such behaviour is absolutely unacceptable for the eu. christians have been driven from their homes and often reside in desert refugee camps where islamists offer death as the only solution. we need to find solutions to the current situation, because the current situation is unsustainable. apart from the christian culture in the middle east being extinguished and the loss of intercultural cooperation, this is a terrifying humanitarian disaster. i support the passage of this resolution to protect religious minorities throughout the area controlled by isis. it is not enough to vote for a resolution, but additional steps must be taken to protect religious minorities in these areas. the vote on the resolution is the first step in this highly complex process.
written. ‒ despite territorial losses in syria and iraq, the so-called islamic state continues to control a large part of the territory in these countries, as well as certain regions in other countries. it is a frightening realization that despite the heavy losses caused by the numerous airstrikes by the countries acting within the coalition against is, the cruel campaign to suppress all religious minorities and their traces of existence is not slacking. this is backed up by alarming information and warnings from the intelligence community that 2016 will unfortunately not be any quieter and that the attacks will continue, even with greater intensity. for this reason, a growing number of human rights experts are calling on the international community to characterize isil's campaign against minority groups as a war crime, a crime against humanity, and genocide. i support the efforts of the un security council to refer these cases to the international criminal court so that not only the perpetrators of these terrible crimes that the world does not remember are prosecuted and punished, but also all those who for years have supported in many ways the activities of various terrorist groups by financing and procuring weapons. that's why i voted for this resolution.
mr president, i would like to highlight three points or three problems. first, creating intermodal transport in this macro-region will require enormous resources. however, there is no alternative to combining rail transport with sea and air transport. the other problem i see is the extreme slowness of the railways, both those in italy, on the ancona-bari route and all those routes that are in croatia from rijeka across zagreb to budapest, zadar, split to zagreb or ploča to sarajevo or to bari, to belgrade. i also want to highlight a local problem that globally means nothing, but it means a lot for istria, where the istrian branch of croatian railways has a connection only with slovenia and there needs to be solved or build a railway tunnel through učka or make an agreement with slovenian railways. finally, the introduction of the tnt network in the balkans is something that is great and i congratulate you on that. you have support for such moves. the speaker accepts to answer the question posed by the raising of the blue card (rule 162, paragraph 8 of the rules of procedure)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you very much for this question. of course, the istrian branch of the croatian railways, which is directly connected only with the slovenian branch, can be dissolved by building a railway tunnel through učka. however, this is of course a long-term and very expensive solution. a good solution would be a good deal between croatian and slovenian railways. i have personally said on several occasions that i see no reason why, as during yugoslavia, when istria was also between croatia and slovenia, that is, in croatia, or part of slovenia, why it could be administered then. the slovenian railways were then in charge, i see no reason why there should not be an agreement and that the slovenian railways should eventually be in charge until further, because today if we do not agree on this, all this railway branch will definitely fail.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. if we want to increase intermodal transport strongly, then we must first of all solve the problem of railway slowness. because we have access, for example, by sea to many areas of the north adriatic, especially in croatian ports or in bar in montenegro. however, to take a person or some product from bari to belgrade or from rijeka to zagreb, so it's like ćiro, the railway used to be in the former yugoslavia. well, it never comes again. so we really need to do something to increase the speed of the railways at this point.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that you continue to support the macro-regional approach, especially as we are talking today about the danube and adriatic-ionian macro-regions, and it is not just about connecting within the region, but also about connecting these two macro-regions. because, for example, in the adriatic sea there are significant ports, significant capacities that could improve the transport of goods from southern europe to central and eastern europe, precisely by contributing to the reduction of co2 emissions. however, this network does not actually exist on the map of the european union. there are no such corridors for freight trains. so what i'm appealing to is actually that these two macro-regions are being mapped out as real and meaningful new rail freight corridors. the commission has also found that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is compatible with the internal market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's transport and environmental policy in the period 2014-2020 and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's transport and environmental policy in the period 2014-2020. what i would also stress as important is that, especially in countries that use the cohesion funds, the absorption of the use of these cohesion funds for rail infrastructure development needs to be improved. not only for the development of rail infrastructure, but also for the maintenance of cross-border infrastructure especially when it comes to regional connectivity because it is very important that everything comes together. in croatia we have a good example of how public procurement is currently putting one such development in question.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the inclusion of this item on the agenda because rail is a very important, cheaper and better for the environment form of transport, and it is not developed in europe, or in the european union as a whole, and especially not developed in this area we are talking about. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the agreements concluded between ryanair and ams, which was signed on the same day, was signed on the same date. i am therefore pleased that commissioner crețu mentioned the extension of the european ten-t network to the western balkans. i expect the consequence of this to be not only the connecting of the western balkans to the rest of europe but also the strengthening of the quality of the rail network and the increased use of rail and river transport in overall traffic in that part of europe and across europe.
written. the macro-regional strategies for the danube and adriatic-ionian regions can be seen as an instrument for european integration and stronger territorial cohesion based on voluntary cooperation between member states and neighbouring countries. the new corridors are key to allow for better connectivity and development of all regions. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's railway infrastructure policy, including on the implementation of the union's railway infrastructure policy. croatia is a unique case of a country located in the territory of two key macro-regions. the commission notes that the aid granted to the airlines was not granted to the airlines that were not subject to the anti-dumping duty. the coordination of policies, alignment of objectives and better use of eu funds will make it possible to reduce disparities between network infrastructures. rail transport is the most cost-effective means of transporting people and goods, reduces costs for citizens in their daily transport and reduces co2 emissions to the environment. the improvement of rail transport reduces socioeconomic disparities between member states. in addition to optimising the capacity of existing infrastructure and creating new corridors, there is a need to exchange good practices and strengthen cooperation with other macro-regions.
madam president, commissioner, i am very pleased that we are discussing this subject here today, and i feel that from the point of view of the citizens it may make much more sense and may be of much greater interest to them than other subjects which the european parliament discusses at a more appropriate time. i would like to appeal to you, commissioner, as the commission's representative, not to underestimate this issue. i come from the czech republic, where there is a very strong public debate today about how to ban so-called dog breeding farms, where females are forced to produce more and more puppies, and these puppies are then illegally sold in western european countries. that means that the ethical standards don't apply, the laws don't apply, the puppies are exported to western europe, and therefore it's a problem of the whole european union. it is not just a problem of the czech republic, but where cross-border trade is illegal and unethical, the european union must, in my view, intervene. if you intervene, i am convinced that even for many czechs who today view the european union negatively or see it as a body that deals with their interests somewhere in brussels, you will do something positive, you will do something for their animals. so i am in favour of enforcing national registries, of having those national registries linked and of having clear regulations and clear rules for the cross-border trade in dogs and cats. it's very important if we want to limit this unethical, illegal behavior.
madam president, for many people, one dog, one cat means everything. we often have the opportunity to read a series of touching stories about these little pets who have often made many, many people happy. that is why such people deserve and ask us to make the appropriate regulations, to harmonize the regulations at the level of the european union, to create compatibility of these regulations because in this way we will show our humanity. what i want to highlight further is the problem, in many countries, of animal shelters. we have to find ways to help these asylum seekers because they are often in a subordinate position. so i am calling on you as a commissioner in the european commission to think about how you can create both compatibility and standards when we talk about animal shelters.
mr president, we built the european union to prevent conflict, to live in peace and not to succumb to populism. the people who created this union were brave enough to create both the schengen area and the euro area and to unite europe. it's up to us to preserve it. our president weber has just said that in the wars in libya, ukraine, syria, we have made this british issue our priority. unfortunately, we are dealing with this as a priority, but we are rightly questioning whether it is the right priority in the crisis we are living in europe, with the number of unemployed we have in the european union. however, we have to deal with it and we are ready to do so. mr juncker recently said: 'either we are brave or everything falls apart.' i believe that we must be brave and that the eu must not collapse and i believe in the british people who will make a decision in june this year. i believe that there will be enough reason and that the answer will be positive, that it will remain in the european union, because that is the only solution for both the union and for the united kingdom. however, you said, mr tusk, and i thank you, that we are in one of the most dangerous phases since the european union was founded. i would say that's true, but we are also in a terrible humanitarian migration crisis, perhaps the worst since world war ii, and that's why i am optimistic about march 7 when you have a summit with turkey and i expect the results and, finally, the implementation so that we don't have the same discussions again. the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question is, how do you get a blue card? mrs. schuitz, i have listened to you carefully and knowing you, i know that you are for britain staying in the european union, as i am for it. but that is not for you to decide, or for me, or for this parliament, but for the british people. so if the british people decide they don't want to be in the european union, do you agree with me that that is the definitive exit of the united kingdom from the european union and that there can be no more negotiations, because this situation has to end at some point. so in that case, the united kingdom will also have to renegotiate its eventual membership of the european union.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. jakovcic, i agree with you that this is the final deal that has been reached, because we can't say that this is a success. these were concessions that the european council achieved by majority or consensus and i think that they should not be given new negotiations, that is, if they want to re-enter. this is the final position of our club. so the answer is yes.
mr. president, statements made after the meeting indicate that both sides in the negotiations between the united kingdom and the european union are satisfied with the agreement. but the reactions of the majority of the british public suggest that there is a lot of discontent, which means that even if the uk remains part of the european family, we must not give up on further reforms of this community. the federal model that some european leaders and many members of this house are striving for is outdated and as such is totally unsuited to modern times in which there is a need for an increasing decentralisation of political power both on european and national soil. make no mistake, britain's remaining in the european union will not silence the millions of britons who are seriously critical of the current state of this community, nor will leaving silence all of us who seek and expect serious reform.
madam president, the single market is not only the foundation of the european union, it is also the only real and measurable benefit for the member states. today only the biggest extremists on the left and the right are disputing the value of the single market for our countries and this is an indication that its establishment in all areas is something we must seriously work on. it is clear that this market is not and cannot be isolated from the economic and social policies of the member states. tax havens and their harmful effects are often discussed in this context. while on the other hand, i think there's little, actually too little, talk about the bad policies that create what i like to say and call the twilight zone. a twilight zone is created by unreasonable taxes and unnecessary regulations and procedures that directly impact entrepreneurs and limit their growth and further employment, impoverishing our societies. the single market is not meaningful if it is over-regulated and places too much burden on european companies to participate.
madam president, i welcome the vice president and the representatives of the council. the success of the european semester requires a great deal of coordination: coordination between local, regional, national objectives and needs with objectives at eu level; coordination between cohesion policy and recommendations to member states; coordination of different sources of funding and achieving synergies; coordination of and focus on the implementation of different european policies, such as environmental protection, transport policy, energy, digital, urban, rural, innovation, research and development and of course cohesion and economic policies. the quality and efficiency of coordination is one of the greatest challenges, especially in view of the number of member states and the number of different institutions responsible for different policies, but also the different structures within the member states. that's why it's very important for us to work on coordination, because without that, we're not going to get any implementation.
madam president, unemployment and insufficient economic growth are definitely still major problems in many member states. are we prepared to face this challenge, and especially the challenge that is coming, because many are heralding a new year of new crises. the european union wants to link a number of policies with the european semester, and that is of course not an easy thing to do. especially if we want to connect the education system, if we want to connect the environmental system, if we want to connect the social system with our economic growth. that is why i accept many of the points in this report, but i would also ask mrs rodrigues to accept the alde amendments, so that we can all vote for your report together.
mr president, we need more mobility within the european union, only 3% of europeans work in another eu country. we have 2 million jobs to fill, and we have massive unemployment in a number of the headline countries. that is why i strongly support the eures platform: i am convinced that it is precisely in this way, in the way of new technologies, that we can solve our problems in many countries in a very high quality way and enable many citizens to get to their jobs. today we have a situation where the european union, on the one hand, needs jobs, on the other hand, people are looking for jobs. public employment agencies, private agencies through this merger can really bring about a better life for many individuals and many families.
dear president, tunisia is one of the few countries where the change of power as a result of the protests of the arab spring did not lead to chaos and conflict as in other arab countries, but democratic changes were achieved. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the tunisian authorities have not yet provided any information on the number of cases of fraud in the union. but this cannot be solved by partial measures that will have a negative impact on european farmers, as we have already seen with the russian embargo. the commission has also proposed that the aid be granted to the following producers: however, imports of olive oil from tunisia into the european union will affect the efforts of the european union to regulate its olive oil market as quality degradations have been identified as a result of the entry of such oils into the european union market. to this must be added the fact that the european union has enough of its own olive oil. tunisia certainly needs help, and in the interests of croatian and european olive growers, i expect that this help will be proportionate, controlled and limited in time.
madam president, i want to say right from the start that i will vote 'yes', although i have many reservations. i shall vote 'yes' because the proposal to monitor the olive oil market in the european union from year to year has been adopted. this is a well-accepted amendment and i believe that it will prove that the import of olive oil into the eu market will primarily benefit some intermediaries within the eu and much less, as is expected, tunisian olive oil producers. however, i will vote "yes" also because it is a kind of political message to tunisia. we must stand with these people, we must help and show by the decisions of the european parliament, in this light, that we want to stand with tunisia. i urge caution because there are some traders, a small number of them, who will benefit more from this than the tunisian olive oil producers.
the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia proposes measures to improve the difficult economic situation in which tunisia has found itself following the recent terrorist attacks. the resolution voted to grant a tax-free annual quota for the export of 35 000 tonnes of virgin olive oil wholly produced in tunisia to the european union. the commission has also received a request from the tunisian authorities to provide additional information on the implementation of the measures in force. it is in the interest of croatian olive growers that this support be proportionate and limited in time to a maximum of two years. the amendments to the resolutions adopted will provide protection to member states involved in the industry and in the export of olive products. i believe that the amount of oil that is going to be imported will not harm the eu citizens involved in the olive industry. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts specifying the conditions for the granting of the preferential agreements.
madam president, it is good that the european union with 28 clear votes is coming to this special session of the united nations general assembly on drugs. our european concept, our european experience in terms of prevention, the role of civil society, the reintegration of those who have tried drugs, the role of public health, education and the campaigns against drugs in many countries, regions and cities, i believe that this european experience can be extremely important for the whole world. of course, and the experience that europol has. but i'm still, when it comes to choosing between prevention and repression, always for what civil society means, prevention, public health, and less repression.
madam president, transport links between the countries of the western balkans and the european union and between them will enable faster communication, faster integration of these countries into europe, better understanding and better relations between them. that is why a few months ago i proposed to my colleagues in the european parliament a declaration on the extension of the large european ten-t network to the countries of the western balkans. earlier this month, the european commission made a decision that will achieve all of these goals that i've talked about. i therefore welcome this decision of the commission and the declaration i have mentioned can still be signed.
madam president, the migrant crisis is the beginning of european unity and european community. dublin has fallen, schengen is at risk. the crisis was so big right at the beginning that we didn't know how to respond properly. unfortunately, i have to say that even today we still have no clear solution because there is no european solidarity, because there is no european community. it is unacceptable that countries that are not members of the european union, that are on the so-called balkan route and that are part of europe, but also countries that are not in europe have done much more for the migration crisis and to solve the migration crisis than the 28 rich countries of the european union. we need more solidarity, more togetherness, because the whole european project will be called into question if it is not.
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the european ombudsman, emily o'rilley, on her re-election to that office. behind it, at least for now, are very impressive results. the level of commitment we've seen since she took office is a guarantee that we'll have many more quality initiatives. first of all, i welcome its commitment to the transparency of the european institutions. the european commission has failed this test too many times, and the ttip negotiations are a clear example. the representatives of the eu institutions, who are proverbially full of the digital market, must understand that the digital age has not only significantly changed the economy but also politics. deals behind closed doors, while the public stumbles in the dark, are a relic of the past. thank you, emily o'reilly, for reminding them of that. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. colleague, anything done behind closed doors, even if done with the best of intentions, honestly, people doubt it. if you do it honestly, there is no reason why it cannot be transparent because we are all citizens of this union and we all want the best for our citizens.
madam president, a lot has been done, madam attorney general, a lot more to be done. and there are high expectations, as you can see, from us meps, from the various european institutions, and above all from our citizens. you have our support, practically, from every club here in this house. you have the unwavering support of the european public. and that is why we trust that you will do everything possible to make the series of things that are happening today, which are important for the future of the european union, really as accessible as possible to the citizens. i'm thinking primarily of ttip, but i'm also thinking of all the things that are happening with the migrant crisis. you have our support, and we expect you to lead your office even more firmly and decisively.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is very clear from the discussion we are having here that the smuggling of tobacco products is something that concerns us all. it affects our public health, our public finances and the quality of our law enforcement. the interest of parliament is shared by the commission. this is an important priority in our work. today we are debating it because the eu’s first anti—fraud agreement with the largest tobacco manufacturer in europe, philip morris international (pmi), is set to expire in july. we are currently reflecting on the way forward and we are benefiting from the debate in this chamber. yesterday we disclosed the commission assessment of the agreement. it is the result of very thorough discussions with the member states and all relevant services. we wanted to make sure that it was as good as it could be, and we acted on our promise to parliament that we would engage all the services of the commission, and in particular the directorate—general responsible for health, to produce this assessment. we did that. let me start by recalling why we have this agreement in the first place. in the past, significant volumes of contraband cigarettes from the major tobacco manufacturers were being smuggled illegally in the eu. we pushed the companies to take action, and the very extensive investigation by olaf led to litigation by the eu and its member states before the us courts against several tobacco manufacturers, resulting in anti-fraud agreements. under these agreements, the manufacturers accepted regulatory discipline that, at that time, was very innovative, included global tracking and tracing of their products, due diligence and know-your-customer, as well as anti-money-laundering provisions. they also offered financial incentives to these companies to comply with the agreements. what is the assessment telling us? first, even if we cannot make – as has been pointed out – direct causality between the agreement and the results in terms of the reduction of smuggling, we have achieved the key objective. the seizure of pmi contraband notified by member states under the agreement was reduced by 85% between 2006 and 2014. that is a fact. second, the agreement provided national and european investigators with intelligence that has led to many seizures, arrests and criminal indictments. transnational criminal organisations were dismantled and illegal factories in some member states were closed down. third, it must also be made clear that the reduction of the pmi contraband did not lead to the overall reduction of the eu tobacco black market. the assessment is very clear about that. what we shrank has been taken over by the so—called ‘cheap whites’. fourthly, the total payments asked by us – annual and seizures – made by the four manufacturers into the eu have so far surpassed eur 1.1 billion, including around eur 100 million in seizure payments. fifth, lessons have been learned from the implementation of these agreements, especially in terms of global tracking and tracing, and these lessons are now very valuably integrated at international level. today, the growing problem of cheap whites requires us to continue to work with our member states to tackle it. i am very pleased to report that olaf has taken this mission of tackling illegal smuggling very seriously, together with member states. last year, 2015, 600 million cigarettes were confiscated, and a vast share of those were cheap whites. as has been stated, we have new tools today. the world has changed. we have the tobacco products directive from 2014 which focuses on production and sales into the european union. the track and trace features under this directive will become mandatory for all manufacturers and importers in may 2019. just as importantly, we have the who framework convention on tobacco control. it requires 40 ratifications to enter into force. so far we have 15. i look forward to parliament voting in may on ratification by the eu, and i can tell you that we are putting a lot of attention and energy into facilitating more ratification so we can have it in force by 2022. so what is the future of the pmi agreement? we are clear that our overarching goal to fight the illicit tobacco trade remains, and we have to make sure we are as effective as possible. we are strengthening our capacity for that. in march this year we will have an independent laboratory to help us in this fight. we are very keen for the regime that is put in place in the eu and internationally to be active and to deliver in this fight. now the question is whether or not, between today and the time when we have the directive in place, 2019, or the time when we have the protocol enacted in 2022, we still need a legally-binding instrument to fight illegal trade. this is what i am here to listen to. i will take this debate into account so we can make an informed decision in the commission in the weeks to come.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, the european commission in the case of the agreement with philip morris international is continuing the practice we have seen in the ttip negotiations. ignoring parliament as the only directly elected body and negotiating away from the eyes of the citizens is not the way to build trust. the complete lack of transparency, even though these are very important issues of public health, the financial interests of the member states and the fight against smuggling, raises the suspicion that the commission is not working in the interest of citizens but in the interest of big business. as a representative of the country with the longest external land border and particularly exposed to the activities of the so-called tobacco mafia, i ask the commission to remove all doubts and to clarify as soon as possible the results of the application of the agreement with philip morris international so far and the plans for its extension. the european public and this house have a right to know!
madam president, smuggling and trafficking of cigarettes is as old as cigarettes themselves, as old as smoking itself. that is why this agreement that is about to be signed is of extreme importance and comes at a time when we really need to talk here to the end about everything that smoking means to harm, to public health, to what it means to young people and all that it means to our community as a whole. it is certainly far more important than this agreement that we succeed in ratifying the world health organisation convention, that we have a real directive on tobacco products because that is what is essential for this parliament, and not the creation of an agreement behind closed doors and without any information about what is really wanted to be achieved by this agreement.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. dear ms. representative grapini, i want to make it absolutely clear that i am one of those great opponents of smoking and i can say that i have never smoked a cigarette in my life, nor have i had one in my mouth and i am sure that cigarettes are a great, great evil, that they harm young people, that they harm everyone who smokes and create enormous costs for public health and in the end people die from smoking and that is the great tragedy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision authorising the republic of austria to sign and ratify the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters and the republic of malta to accede to that convention in the interest of the european union, as the european parliament thereby expresses its consent. i consider that the convention is of particular importance in the field of cross-border supply of documents and that it is in the interest of the union and the member states concerned to strengthen the single regime for the supply of documents in cross-border relations with third countries. it is also important to emphasise the role of the union in that process which authorises member states to act on its behalf in order to accede to the convention. accordingly, and given that the said convention is already applied by 25 eu member states, i support the willingness of austria and malta to accede to it.
written. ‒ the 1965 hague convention established a system defining how each signatory state may transmit judicial and extrajudicial documents abroad in civil or commercial proceedings. the convention does not concern the work of international organisations and the eu has to vote on the participation of each member state in the convention. at present, 26 of the 28 member states are party to the convention, and now austria and malta have expressed their wish to sign the convention. i supported the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention as the convention has proven to be a practical tool for the settlement of judicial and extrajudicial disputes in practice so far. it is in the interest of the eu that all member states are in one system for the cross-border supply of documents to third countries.
written. ‒ i welcome the decision of austria and malta to accede to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. austria and malta are the only two member states of the european union which have not yet acceded to the said convention, and their accession will allow the member states to act on behalf of the union, as the eu as an international organisation cannot accede to the convention. i therefore invite parliament to support the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention and express the hope that this accession will be another in a series of steps taken by the member states to strengthen the union's position in its relations with third countries.
‒ the convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters is a multilateral agreement signed at the hague on 15 november 1965. the convention provides channels for the transmission of judicial or extrajudicial documents sent by one member state of the convention to another member state of the latter. in other words, the convention provides one formal channel for transmission, via the central body of the requested state, and several alternative channels for transmission. the hague conference currently has 80 members: 79 member states and 1 regional economic community organisation. in total, 26 eu member states are applying the convention. given that the hague convention has proved its usefulness in the field of cross-border service of documents, as evidenced by the number of acceding states to the convention, it is in the interest of the union as a whole that all member states accept one regime for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries. therefore, i support the accession of the last two member states, austria and malta, to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters.
‒ the 1965 hague convention provides for the channels of transmission to be used when judicial or extrajudicial documents need to be transmitted from one contracting party to another. however, it is important to note that the convention only covers cross-border supply of documents to or from third countries, and 26 of the 28 member states already apply the convention. austria and malta, as the two remaining member states, have expressed their wish to accede to the convention, and the eu must authorise the member state in question to act on its own behalf and accede to the convention. malta has already deposited its instrument of accession, but has made a declaration that its accession will not take effect until this decision is accepted. austria is also awaiting this decision in order to be able to carry out the formalities for acceding to the said convention. the hague convention has proven its usefulness in the field of cross-border supply of documents and it is in the interest of the eu as a whole as well as of the two member states concerned to have one regime for the supply of documents in cross-border relations with third countries and therefore austria and malta should be allowed to accede to the 1965 hague convention without hindrance.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby documents may be made available in another state party to the convention. the convention concerns the cross-border service of service of documents within the european union, regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on the service in the member states of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. of the 28 member states, 26 already apply the conventions. austria and malta, like the two remaining member states, have expressed their wish to join. having regard to the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs (a8-0018/2016), i have endorsed the assent to the draft council decision authorising the republic of austria to sign and ratify the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters and the republic of malta to accede to that convention in the interest of the european union.
‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system enabling the member states of the european union to serve judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters abroad. it should be noted that the convention only covers cross-border supply of judicial and extrajudicial documents to or from third countries. today, 26 of the 28 member states use the system. the republic of austria and the republic of malta are two member states which have not yet acceded to the convention and have expressed their wish to do so. a draft council decision authorising the republic of malta to accede to the convention and authorising the republic of austria to sign and ratify the convention has been submitted. the importance and usefulness of this convention have already been demonstrated and it is in the interest of austria and malta, but also of the union as a whole, to be part of a single system for the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. therefore, i support the decision to allow the republic of austria and the republic of malta to accede to, sign and ratify the convention.
written. ‒ given that the hague convention has proved useful and effective in the field of cross-border supply of documents and that the existence of a single regime for the supply of documents in cross-border relations with third countries is in the interest of the european union as a whole, as well as of the two member states concerned, it is not surprising that parliament should seek to give its consent to the proposal for a decision to allow austria and malta to accede to that convention. of the 28 eu member states, 26 already apply the hague convention. austria and malta, as the two remaining member states, have expressed their wish to accede to the said convention. these two countries have an absolute right to accede to and ratify the convention, but without legal competence and without the need for the european union to approve these requests. in this connection, and as i have always stressed, i am in favour of the principle of the sovereign integrity and genuine subsidiarity of the member states and i hope that these principles will also apply to the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention. that's why i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in the directive on taxation of savings income, as it improves tax cooperation and reinforces measures against tax evasion and fraud. the union legal framework in this area was improved at the end of 2014 and san marino is expected to apply measures equivalent to that framework. i believe that the exchange of information should not only concern income but also account balances and income from the sale of financial assets. this will strengthen the efficiency, consistency and effectiveness of public administrations in the member states and in san marino, and i therefore support this report.
the eu and san marino signed an agreement in december 2015 on the automatic exchange of financial account information aimed at enhancing tax cooperation and enforcement at international level. this agreement is a step towards introducing stricter measures against tax fraud and evasion. the new agreement would allow san marino to automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of its residents. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the taxable profit of the company is based on the profit or loss of the company. the data will not only relate to income, such as interest rates and dividends, but also to account balances and income from the sale of financial assets, which is why i supported this agreement.
written. ‒ i welcome this report and support it fully. the new agreement between the european union and the republic of san marino on measures relating to the taxation of savings income will allow for a better exchange of information on the financial accounts of their nationals. i call on parliament to support this report and the signing of the agreement itself, the implementation of which will make a major contribution to combating tax evasion and avoidance. although a similar agreement with san marino was signed in 2004, this document will allow san marino to apply the enhanced measures related to the exchange of information on financial accounts, which have since been accepted by the european union and enhanced by the organisation for economic cooperation and development. i therefore welcome the signing of this agreement as i see it as another step towards achieving the rule of law at european level.
‒ the european union and san marino signed an agreement on 8 december 2015 setting a benchmark for tax transparency, which represents an important step forward in the fight against tax evasion. under the agreement, starting in 2017, the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their residents, which will allow dealing with situations where a taxpayer wishes to conceal capital representing income or assets for which no tax has been paid. given that tax evasion and avoidance are widespread and cause significant revenue losses, i support the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the republic of san marino on measures to tax savings income that is ultimately consistent with the need for greater transparency in tax matters between the eu and third countries.
written. ‒ following the adoption of the savings directive to maintain a level playing field for economic operators, the eu signed agreements with switzerland, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in the directive. member states have also signed agreements with the dependent territories of the united kingdom and the netherlands. the automatic exchange of information is a very important tool in the fight against cross-border tax fraud and cross-border tax evasion, thus ensuring full tax transparency and cooperation between tax administrations worldwide, which has also recently been recognised at international level. in order to reduce costs and administrative burdens for tax administrations and economic operators, it is necessary to ensure that the amendment of the existing savings agreement concluded with san marino is in line with developments at eu and international level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-san marino agreement and the eu-san marino agreement on the automatic exchange of information. for the reasons set out above, i support the report by mrs core van nieuwenhuizen.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the european union and san marino signed on 8 december 2015 an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts aimed at enhancing tax cooperation and enforcement at international level. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to introduce strong measures against tax fraud and evasion and improves the 2004 agreement which ensured that san marino applies measures such as those in the eu savings tax directive. the eu and san marino shall exchange information on the financial accounts of their residents automatically as from 2017. the aim is to tackle situations where a taxpayer wishes to conceal capital representing income or assets not taxed, and therefore endorsed the report itself.
written. ‒ to ensure that san marino applies equivalent measures to those provided for in the eu savings tax directive, an agreement was signed between the eu and san marino back in 2004. the commission subsequently accepted on 17 june 2011 a recommendation to open negotiations with san marino, which resulted in an enhanced eu legal framework in december 2014 amending the dac2 administrative cooperation directive and promoting the exchange of financial account information, which was also recommended in the framework of the oecd global standards. the agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information was signed on 8 december 2015 with the aim of enhancing tax cooperation and enforcement at international level. this agreement is crucial in the fight against tax fraud and evasion. the new agreement, which is expected to enter into force in 2017, will allow for the automatic exchange of information on residents' financial accounts between the eu and san marino in order to prevent the concealment of assets and untaxed income. the commission will also be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in the light of the criteria set out in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. therefore, i fully support and accept this report.
the european union and san marino signed on 8 december 2015 an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts aimed at enhancing tax cooperation and enforcement at international level. the extended agreement will allow san marino to apply enhanced measures equivalent to the eu legal framework and consistent with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted under the 2014 oecd global standards. the disclosure of information to the public is not required to be based on the disclosure of information to the public. the commission has also concluded that the tax authorities of san marino are entitled to impose a tax on the income of taxable persons resident in san marino, in accordance with the provisions of the agreement on the european economic area, and that the tax authorities of san marino are entitled to impose a tax on the income of taxable persons resident in san marino, in accordance with the provisions of the agreement on the european economic area. accordingly, i fully support the amendment of the agreement and the efforts of rapporteur van nieuwenhuizen to conclude and ratify the agreement as soon as possible in order to shorten the transition period.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, as it accepts the european commission's recommendation. accordingly, i consider that the commission's recommendation to the council to set by decision the date of entry into force of the conventions for croatia is justified and at the same time that no specific adjustments need to be made as a result of croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols.
written. ‒ i supported croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests as it is part of the accession treaty of the republic of croatia which defines a simplified system for croatia's accession to all the conventions (and protocols) concluded by other member states. the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests is also listed in the convention and protocol. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation.
written. ‒ i welcome the report presented and support it fully. the report underlined that the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests is based on the treaty of accession of croatia to the eu and that croatia does not need to make any further adjustments to accede to the convention. i believe that the european parliament should approve the commission's recommendation on croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. the accession of croatia to this convention will result in greater success in the fight against fraud relating to expenditure and revenue, with a clear distinction between active and passive corruption of officials. croatia's accession to the convention and its application in our country could make a major contribution to the fight against corruption. i am convinced that the application of the convention in croatia will contribute to the protection of the financial interests of the republic of croatia and will also raise the level of security of croatian taxpayers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the financial interests of the european communities.
written. ‒ since 1995, there has been a convention to protect, in accordance with criminal law, the financial interests of the eu and its taxpayers. eu countries must introduce effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions for fraud affecting the eu's financial interests. the convention and its protocols are open to all countries acceding to the eu. given that croatia joined the eu on 1 july 2013 and thus acquired the status of full member, i welcome croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests with a view to increasing transparency in the use of public funds, both at european and national level.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague, mr tomáš zdechovský, on croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. the act concerning the conditions of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union introduced a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols signed by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu (former article k.3 teu). article 3 (4) and (5) of the said act provides that croatia accedes to those conventions and protocols on the basis of the act of accession.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by member states on the basis of article 34 teu (former article k.3 teu). article 3 (4) and (5) of the act provides for the accession of croatia to those conventions and protocols on the basis of the act of accession. article 3 (5) of the act of accession provides that the council is to adopt a decision to that end in order to determine the date of entry into force of those conventions for croatia and to adapt the conventions for the accession of the new member states (which would certainly include the adoption of the conventions in the croatian language so that those versions could be 'equally authentic'). the commission recommends that the council adopt a decision to determine the date of entry into force of those conventions for croatia, and i therefore support the report.
written. ‒ a simplified system of accession to conventions and protocols previously concluded by member states was made possible for the republic of croatia by the treaty of accession to the eu of 2011. article 3 (5) of the act of accession provides that the council is to determine the date of entry into force of the conventions and the adaptation of those conventions for croatia. this includes publishing conventions in croatian. parliament accepted the commission's view that no further adjustments are necessary to bring croatia into line with the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, but that it is only necessary to determine when that convention will enter into force in croatia. i therefore accept and approve this report and the commission's recommendation.
written. ‒ it is a legal standard in modern democracies to provide criminal protection for public budgetary funds, i.e. to qualify their misappropriation in a certain amount as a criminal offence. the most important eu legal instrument in the field of criminal law protection of its budgetary resources is certainly the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. as a member of the interclub for integrity transparency, anti-corruption and organised crime, i am pleased that croatia has formally acceded to the convention, which is the backbone of the obligations of member states with regard to the protection against fraud, corruption, money laundering or the criminality of legal persons, which also damage or jeopardise budgetary resources. although, like most member states, croatian legislation provides for specific criminal offences to protect the expenditure and revenue of the eu budget and all offences relevant to fraud against the eu are prescribed by criminal law, i welcome this commission recommendation on croatia's formal accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, as this is the only way to finally put us all together against all those who see the budget as a means of their personal enrichment.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of the labour market, because it is an excellent and much needed idea for developing a more integrated labour market in the union, reducing unemployment and better linking supply and demand in the same. the key features of the eures network are transnational and cross-border cooperation which could contribute to the creation of innovative forms of learning and cooperation between employment services, in particular in the area of quality standards for job vacancies and support services.
written. ‒ the freedom to work anywhere within the eu is one of the four freedoms on which the eu is founded. the eures network of employment services aims to bring together the needs of jobseekers and job-seekers. currently, more than 1.1 million eu citizens cross national borders to work in a neighbouring country every day. in line with labour market needs, this report proposes a reform of the eures website to allow for more partnerships and consolidated cooperation between public and private employment services, which i supported.
written. ‒ i welcome this report and support it fully. the growing trend of high unemployment, especially among young people, is a serious problem both at national and european level. in 2015, the eu had an unemployment rate of almost 10%, while in croatia, overall unemployment was a high 17%, ranking croatia third in the eu, just behind greece and spain. the figures on unemployment among young people under 25 are staggering, and in croatia it has reached 45%, while at european level it is around 20%. such statistics also require effective action by the european institutions and in this regard i welcome the efforts made by the commission to improve the functioning of the eures employment mobility portal, in order to make it more understandable and accessible to jobseekers across the union, and in particular in countries most affected by high unemployment. such measures will further stimulate the still underdeveloped labour mobility within the european union and deepen the integration of the european market.
written. ‒ freedom of movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms on which the eu is founded. the freedom of citizens, including croats, to work anywhere in the eu is a key aspect of eu citizenship and includes the right of croatian citizens to seek employment in another eu country, to work there without the need for a work permit, to reside there for that purpose with their family members and to enjoy equal treatment with citizens in terms of access to employment, working conditions and all other social and tax benefits. the aim of this regulation is to make the eures network an effective instrument for jobseekers or employers involved in labour mobility within the eu. this would create a pool of job vacancies and jobseekers whose profile could be consulted by anyone at eu level. given that high unemployment is affecting some parts of europe, including croatia, whose unemployment rate is 18.5%, which is 8% above the eu unemployment rate, i support this regulation as it contributes to improving labour mobility within the eu, creating new opportunities for employing workers and helping employers to fill vacancies more quickly and efficiently.
‒ 1.1 million european citizens cross the border for work every day, and in 2013 more than 7 million eu citizens lived and worked in another member state, 78% of whom were economically active and 68% of whom had a job. such mobility is made possible by the fact that eu citizens can move freely, seeking work in another member state without a work permit. despite the fact that the number of people living in a member state where they were not born has increased by 60% since 2005, this number still represents only 3,1% of the total eu workforce. the eu has 25 million unemployed, of which more than 5 million are young people, but there is still a shortage of skilled workers in many regions of the member states. to facilitate and simplify the employment of eu citizens in other member states, the eures network was launched in 1993, allowing for the free movement of workers within the member states and to switzerland, norway, iceland and liechtenstein. such a network provides free information on life and work in individual member states and connects employers with jobseekers, but its reform is needed to adapt it to the new conditions and situation in the eu in economic and social terms. i therefore support the report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the eures network aims to support labour mobility within the union. in order to provide workers and employers with reliable and up-to-date information on the different aspects of labour mobility in the union, the eures network should cooperate with other union bodies, services and networks facilitating mobility and informing citizens about their rights in accordance with union legislation, such as the european youth portal, organisations responsible for the recognition of professional qualifications and bodies for the promotion, analysis, monitoring and support of equal treatment of workers, designated in accordance with the directive. the free movement of workers and a high level of employment are closely linked and it is therefore necessary for member states to develop mobility policies that will contribute to a better functioning of the labour market in the union. the mobility policies of the member states should be considered as an integral part of their social and employment policies and i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ the aim of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of the labour market is to transform the eures network into an effective mechanism for job search, traineeships and apprenticeships. eures is a free online portal for worker mobility, offering information on living and working conditions in all member states available in 25 languages. the commission proposes amendments to the regulation to increase the number of eures partners outside the eu. the focus is on young people, offering jobs that allow for learning-by-doing such as apprenticeships and traineeships. the proposal emphasises that labour market policies will remain the responsibility of the eu member states. the draft will give priority to eu citizens in employment, according to the member states and the commission. freedom to work anywhere in the european union is one of the fundamental principles of freedom of movement, one of the four freedoms on which the eu is founded. many member countries are facing mass unemployment. on the other hand, there is a shortage of skilled workers in many regions within member states and there is a need to invest in improving the development of the european labour market. i support this draft because the changes envisaged will result in new opportunities for citizens looking for work and help employers to find the skilled workers they need more quickly.
written. ‒ as a member from croatia, a member of the european union which has in recent years been faced with the problem of young educated people leaving for jobs and a better life, i do not support measures that provide additional incentives and opportunities for young people to leave their countries. i repeat that such measures are not effective and beneficial for all member states, because despite the fact that the high unemployment rate is largely driven by young people, i believe that such mobility incentives can further damage the economies of member states such as croatia. i believe that the emphasis should be on identifying differences in labour markets in the member states and designing programmes to enable the creation of new jobs and thus give young people the opportunity to fulfil their potential in their own countries. that's why i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia because i support the efforts to help the tunisian economy, which has been significantly weakened by terrorist attacks and political events. in this context, i support the introduction of urgent autonomous trade measures, which is also the position of the alde group. however, it is necessary to establish whether olive oil will be imported directly from tunisia and to prevent possible attempts to smuggle or fraudulent origin of the same. i therefore consider that the proposed measures should take into account the protection of european olive oil producers and prevent market disturbances.
the commission also notes that the tunisian authorities have not provided any evidence that the tunisian authorities have been engaged in any illegal activity in the territory of the drc. the olive oil sector in tunisia currently employs about one million workers, representing one fifth of the agricultural workforce in tunisia. in order to support tunisia's economic growth and development, the eu is unilaterally and temporarily lifting the olive oil tariff quota this year, which is 35 000 tonnes of oil per year. the quota shall apply from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. i believe it is important to provide support and solidarity to tunisia following the terrorist attacks that have damaged the economy, and this measure to remove the olive oil quota is one way of helping, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ to express solidarity with tunisia and support its democratic regime, the european commission has proposed the introduction of temporary unilateral duty-free quotas of 35 000 tonnes per year for tunisian olive oil exports to the european union, in addition to the existing quota of 57 000 tonnes. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the quota. olive oil is tunisia's main agricultural export product to the eu, and the olive oil industry is an important part of the country's economy, directly and indirectly employing more than one million people. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the tunisian authorities have not yet taken the necessary measures to ensure that the union market is not affected by the imposition of measures on tunisia. the european olive sector has already been severely affected by the economic crisis. olive oil is not only the most important agricultural product exported from tunisia to the eu, but the olive oil market is above all one of the strategic markets for the economy of the mediterranean member states of the eu, which produce olive oil of the highest quality, so i ask for the protection of the interests of our farmers.
written. ‒ olive oil is tunisia's main agricultural export product to the union, and the olive oil industry is an important part of the economy of that country, which has suffered significant financial consequences in recent years. in view of the recent developments in tunisia, the union has decided to provide additional macro-financial assistance of eur 300 million to tunisia in order to support the implementation of the necessary political reforms. this measure is another of the proposals for aid to tunisia which i do not necessarily consider to be the most appropriate. the price of oil in tunisia is incomparably lower than in the eu. i think a more concrete measure of aid would be to raise the price on the tunisian market. this way, we risk the extra profit being made by the oil dealers alone. on the other hand, we must also take into account the olive sector in europe, which has already been hit by an unprecedented crisis and record low yields over the last two years. oil reserves are below average, which opens up additional space for tunisian oil. however, it is necessary to define safeguard mechanisms in case the olive yield in europe this year is higher. for the reasons i have outlined, i support all four amendments tabled to clarify the terms and improve the proposal to help tunisia.
written. ‒ i support the report by marielle de sarnez on the introduction of urgent autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. tunisia is in a difficult situation, going through a political and economic transition, and needs eu assistance. in order to provide this assistance, the commission proposes to offer tunisia a temporary, unilateral duty-free tariff rate quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for olive oil exports to the eu, in the form of an autonomous trade measure. the quota shall be available for a period of two years from january 2016 to january 2017. the measure would greatly help tunisia to rebuild its economy, which is in a very difficult situation. however, we must be aware of the fact that the solidarity of the european union in this case has been developed at the expense of olive oil producers in southern europe. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee for the beneficiaries of the aid. the negative effects on the olive oil market must be minimised in order to prevent a fall in european olive oil prices in the coming months.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ following the terrorist attack in sousse, tunisia, on 26 june 2015, the council of the european union stated in its conclusions of 20 july 2015 that the union would, after consulting its member states, explore the possibility of taking exceptional and temporary measures to support the tunisian economy. the commission has also examined the application of the union state aid rules to the olive oil sector in tunisia. a duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes is therefore opened for 2016 for imports into the union of virgin olive oil falling within cn codes 1509 10 10 and 1509 10 90 wholly produced in tunisia and consigned directly from tunisia to the union. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union has not yet entered into a comprehensive free trade area with tunisia.
the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia proposes measures to improve the difficult economic situation in which tunisia has found itself following the recent terrorist attacks. the regulation provides for a tax-free annual quota for the export of 35 000 tonnes of virgin olive oil wholly produced in tunisia to the european union. the commission has also provided information on the number of licences issued by the member states for the export of olive oil to third countries. these emergency measures will be in force for a period of 2 years. the amendments to the regulations adopted will provide protection for the member countries involved in the industry and the export of olive products. it is considered that the quantity of quota oil imported will not harm eu citizens engaged in the olive industry. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts specifying the conditions for the granting of the preferential agreements. i voted to postpone the vote to further align certain items in this report.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council introducing emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia, as i believe that these measures will have a positive impact on alleviating the difficult economic situation faced by tunisia due to terrorist attacks. i would point out that the specific trade measures may be suspended in the event of a market imbalance at union level and if the introduction of the quota provided for in this regulation leads to a serious disturbance of the union market. as the suspension can continue until normal market conditions are restored, i am of the opinion that this will not have a negative impact on the union producers.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as the conditions of article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 to support 412 workers declared as senior in the hainaut and namur regions and 100 young people from the hainaut region who are not in employment, education or training. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of beneficiaries of the aid in the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2014.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world economy. in order to trigger the mobilisation of the european fund, it is necessary to coordinate the opinions of the parliament, the council and the commission on the management of the funds and the amounts. the commission accepted the proposal to mobilise funds for belgium to support the reintegration of the labour market, where the glassworkers were the technological surplus in two large corporations, at nuts2 level in the regions of hainaut (be32) and namur (be35) in belgium. eur 1 million will be mobilised for 412 staff and 100 targeted young professionals. the commission concluded that belgium and its regions fulfilled all the conditions for the use of those funds and i therefore supported the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund.
written. ‒ i support the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund under the 2016 eu general budget, at the request of belgium, to provide assistance to redundant workers in the glass sector. the belgian region of wallonia, and in particular the area of the cities of namur and hainaut, is known for its tradition of glass production, which employs a considerable number of workers in the region. this industry sector was in serious crisis, both due to the global financial crisis and the fact that most of the european market was taken over by foreign producers. unfortunately, the price of the crisis and globalization this time is paid by the workers of wallonia, 412 of them. i believe that this measure will make it easier for the dismissed workers to find another job, start their own business or retrain, which will also help to reduce the unemployment rate in wallonia. i therefore call on parliament to respond to the request of belgium and to approve this decision.
the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, such as the closure of large companies or the relocation of production outside the eu, or as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. for the period 2014-2020, the fund has a maximum annual budget of eur 150 million and can finance up to 60% of the cost of projects designed to help redundant workers find new employment or set up their own business. the strong historical tradition of glassmaking in wallonia is facing major challenges today, including overcapacity in asia combined with higher production costs and stricter environmental standards in europe, which ultimately resulted in the dismissal of 412 belgian workers from hainaut-hamur glass who had become surplus. for this reason, i support this measure, which provides eur 1 095 544, which will benefit 412 former workers and up to 100 targeted young people not in employment, education or training, to provide them with integrated training and facilitate their job search.
‒ on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut namur glass for 412 workers declared as redundant in an economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products). the redundancies in the undertakings concerned occurred in the belgian regions of hainaut (be32) and namur (be35), which are part of nuts 2. in order to establish a correlation between the redundancies and the major structural alterations in world trade flows caused by globalisation, belgium argued that eu trade in glass products has been significantly disrupted in recent years. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union producers in the union market. although demand in developing economies has increased, europe has unfortunately not been able to increase its market share in export markets. in order to help displaced workers to be trained and re-qualified for new jobs, i support the report of my colleague rapporteur tomáš zdechovský.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ belgium submitted an application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass for a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies in an economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) in the nuts 2 regions of hainaut (be32) and namur (be35) in belgium, and it is envisaged that the measures will cover 412 workers declared redundant, as well as 100 young people from the hainaut region who are not in employment, education or training (neet) and are under 25 years of age. the commission also found that the company had not been able to obtain the necessary information to enable it to assess the impact of the measures on the union industry. i support the commission's proposal as the conditions of article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and therefore belgium is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 under that regulation, which is 60% of the total cost of eur 1 825 907.
written. ‒ workers and employers across the european union have been affected by the global financial and economic crisis. to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the closure or downsizing of large companies or the relocation of production to non-eu countries, a european globalisation adjustment fund has been set up. the report on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund proposes the introduction of personalised support measures for the glass sector in belgium. the belgian region of wallonia has a strong and long tradition of glass production and companies in this sector have been facing great difficulties in recent years. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. belgium plans to implement seven measures to help citizens who have lost their jobs, including job search assistance, training and support, through the fund. i support the decision to mobilise the fund to help this sector cope with the new conditions and to help the affected workforce find new employment opportunities.
written. ‒ i voted against belgium's request for financial support for the adaptation to globalisation in the glass sector for a total amount of eur 1 825 907, of which eur 1 095 544 should come from the european globalisation adjustment fund. while i support measures that promote economic growth and job creation in principle, i do not think that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument for implementing such a policy and that the money offered will not reintegrate surplus workers. the commission established the profitability of the union industry by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. from all the above, it is clear that the proposed measures cannot reintegrate the 412 workers in the belgian regions of hainaut and namur into the labour market or help the recovery of that sector in the long term, but only constitute short-term aid.
written. ‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey 2016, because i believe that more effective structural reforms are needed, especially in terms of modernising economies and sustaining public finances. it is also necessary to improve the current business environment in order to attract investment and to increase confidence in the eu and to ensure that public spending is efficient and economically sustainable. this is the position of the alde group, and i was therefore against this motion for a resolution.
‒ the european commission published its annual growth review for 2016 last november and called on member states to take even more effective measures in the new cycle of the european semester to boost investment, implement structural reforms and responsible fiscal policies, which, combined with the unconventional monetary policy measures of the european central bank, will result in growth for the european economy. the report calls for coordination between the different eu policies and instruments and for linking local, regional and national objectives with those at eu level. the objective is to use the european semester mechanism effectively to stimulate economic growth, development and employment between member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe.
written. ‒ the commission's growth survey report for this year focused on three main areas: investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. i believe it is important that this report should lead to a thorough debate at european level on three important issues: the question of deepening coordination at euro area level, the future direction of the eu's fiscal, monetary and structural policies, and the question of democratising the decision-making process on the recommendations of the european semester. i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential for europe to find responsible solutions to the new challenges it faces, above all the threat of terrorist attacks and the migrant crisis, in order to assert its political legitimacy. i believe that parliament's support for this report makes a significant contribution to the definition of the priorities of the european semester for economic policy coordination in 2016 and sends an important message to all actors to actively engage in the european semester so that we can all together drive a stronger economic recovery of the european economy.
written. ‒ the annual growth survey identifies what more can be done at eu level to help member states boost growth, enhance economic convergence, create jobs and strengthen social justice. the importance of an integrated approach to economic policy based on three main areas of action that must work together is therefore underlined: stimulating investment, accelerating structural reforms and implementing responsible, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. only by working together can confidence be restored and the eu as a whole be brought back to growth, and this requires a strong commitment from member states to act at national level. for this reason, i welcome the 2016 annual growth survey package and the proposed policy mix of investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility, which aims to promote higher growth rates and strengthen european recovery and upward convergence. i would like to stress that, given the slowdown in the world economy, the eu cannot rely on exports but needs to increase domestic demand to increase the potential for growth. for this reason, private and public investment needs to be increased. surplus countries should expand their budgets to support investment, while deficit countries should be allowed more fiscal space through flexibility to allocate more to investment and structural reforms.
written. ‒ the eu is emerging from a long economic crisis that has caused serious social hardship and undermined the potential for economic growth. at the same time, the eu is facing new challenges, in particular the threat of terrorist attacks, geopolitical instability in its neighbourhood and an unprecedented number of asylum seekers. it is important that the eu develops the means to address these challenges in order to ensure its political legitimacy in this situation. it is equally important to boost economic recovery and create quality jobs. in addition to the economic challenges that have arisen in the midst of the digital revolution and technological innovation, it is also important to look at longer-term challenges such as climate change, robotization, demographic change and the shift towards a multipolar world. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. all the structural reforms that will result must reflect and be based on the experiences of the past and the challenges that lie ahead. although the concept of structural reforms is generally understood to involve reducing the role of the state in the economy, thus creating more flexible markets, such an approach has not always led to improved productivity, but has even increased inequalities and deflationary pressures. i therefore support the report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the economic recovery in the european union is ongoing, but it remains weak and uneven between and within member states, and is partly driven by temporary and external factors, including low oil prices. global economic growth is slowing down due to economic and financial turmoil in several emerging economies, leading to new strategic challenges to which the european union must adapt appropriately. europe still faces a serious investment gap, significantly weakening the eu's potential for longer-term growth, while the current account surplus of the euro area's balance of payments is growing. i therefore welcome the 2016 annual growth survey package and the proposed policy mix of investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility, which aims to promote higher growth rates and strengthen european recovery and upward convergence. i would also stress that achieving a stronger economic recovery and sustainable, widespread prosperity requires significant national efforts in terms of effective implementation of structural reforms as well as stronger european coordination.
written. ‒ the annual growth survey identifies three priorities for 2016: implementing structural reforms, responsible fiscal policies and stimulating investment. it stresses the need to address macroeconomic imbalances, improve the business environment, respect common fiscal rules, reduce public debt and combat long-term unemployment. global competitiveness remains an important objective. member states need to devise new strategic approaches and structural reforms to strengthen the eu's long-term growth potential and successfully combat long-term unemployment, especially among young people, and poverty. many member states have limited fiscal capacity to cope with new economic shocks. although some eu countries are experiencing economic recovery, progress in many is still uneven and weak. investments in skills development, a more inclusive eu labour market and the creation and maintenance of equal employment opportunities are needed. i support the report because it stresses the need to invest in structural reforms, productivity and reducing macroeconomic inequalities, and the importance of enabling the free movement of people, goods, services and capital, which is the foundation of sustainable economic growth in the european union market.
written. ‒ while i agree that additional efforts are needed to recover the economies of the european union and to correct macroeconomic imbalances, i do not believe that the measures proposed in this report represent an effective or proper way to achieve the objectives of reducing poverty, social exclusion and rising inequalities. in particular, while i believe that the member states should make full use of the european structural and investment funds, i consider that this is an excessively prescriptive text which also attempts to diminish the role and importance of national parliaments as the main actors in economic governance matters. as i do not support the proposal to redistribute and redefine responsibilities within the european semester by shifting the debate from the level of national parliaments to the european parliament's plenary session, i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social policy aspects in the annual growth survey 2016, because i believe that more investment in social development is needed in the form of strengthening convergence. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. i followed the alde group's position which was to vote against this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ according to the commission's latest economic forecasts, the unemployment rate in 2015 stood at 9.5%, the lowest in the european union since the start of the crisis. however, the long-term and youth unemployment rates remain high and we need more decisive and effective action at member state level to tackle these problems. effective structural reforms in the areas of labour market and education are needed, and financial incentives for lifelong learning, new skills and innovation are needed. in addition, better use of the instruments at our disposal, such as the youth guarantee, is needed. i consider these to be key steps to reduce long-term unemployment, especially among young people, and therefore supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies and employment and social policy aspects in the annual growth survey 2016.
written. ‒ we are witnessing a situation of increasing youth unemployment, undeclared work, which threatens workers' access to social protection systems, as well as risks to the sustainability of social security, especially with regard to persons at risk of social exclusion (e.g. the elderly, persons with disabilities, refugees, etc.). i believe that good and quality jobs, especially for young people, are the foundation of social justice and the guarantee of a future and the promotion of human dignity. in this context, employment and social growth must be at the heart of eu policies as a means of achieving a more sustainable european social union, as well as ensuring the sustainability of social protection in the face of the expected ageing of the population and promoting family-friendly policies that can increase the capacity of parents to ensure the well-being of their children and contribute to an increase in birth rates. i encourage member states to modernise their existing social protection systems in order to achieve the above. i welcome the commission's call for member states to increase social investment, in particular in the context of healthcare, childcare, housing support and rehabilitation services.
written. ‒ unemployment remains too high in many member states, currently at 9.9% of the working population, or 23 million europeans, of whom about half are long-term unemployed. in the euro area, unemployment is at 10%. at eu level, the youth unemployment rate stands at 22,6%, and the proportion of young people not in education or training or in employment in 2014 was 12,3%. this group is threatened with exclusion from the labour market leading to a loss of skills and human capital. one of the five objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the number of poor and socially excluded people. 123 million people in the eu are poor and socially excluded. i welcome the commission's call for investment in services such as housing support, health, childcare and rehabilitation services. quality and inclusive employment is the foundation of social justice because it promotes the human dignity of all. we need to invest in people as early in their life cycle as possible to reduce inequality and encourage social inclusion at an early age. i believe that sustainable and inclusive growth, resulting in more and better jobs and concrete prospects for all, especially young people, needs to be promoted in order to respond to the internal and external challenges facing the european union.
written. - i support the report by my colleague, sofia ribeiro. the high unemployment rate in the eu has slowly started to decline, but despite macroeconomic measures and structural reforms, unemployment and poverty have not been contained. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the medium term, in particular through the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the employment rate for women is 63,5% as of may 2015, well below the europe 2020 target of 75%. increasing women's participation in the labour market can go a long way towards reducing the perceived economic gap between women and men and positively impacting women's higher risk of poverty and social exclusion. the loss of human capital amid unemployment is enormous, and the total cost of youth unemployment is estimated at €153 billion a year. in addition to the financial and social consequences, unemployment, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment negatively affect social cohesion and ultimately impede sustainable economic growth. therefore, it is of the utmost importance to invest in social development that ensures sustainable and inclusive economic development and also positively impacts social and economic cohesion, which should be the primary objective of eu policy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the unemployment rate has been declining slowly since the second half of 2013, but not enough to halt unemployment and poverty despite some encouraging macroeconomic policies and structural reforms. unemployment remains too high in many member states and currently stands at 9,9% of the working population, or 23 million europeans, of whom about half are long-term unemployed, compared with 10% of the population in the euro area, all of which are lower than in 2008. i therefore welcome the commission's call for investment in services such as housing support, health, childcare and rehabilitation services, and would stress that economic and social cohesion should remain the primary objective of all eu policies and that more effort should be made to make a more complex and objective assessment based on the diversity and characteristics of the member states. i welcome the fact that the commission's annual growth survey underlines the need to pay greater attention to social justice in the context of the new national stability and reform programmes by adding three employment-related indicators (activity rate, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment) to the macroeconomic imbalance procedure.
written. ‒ the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination in the annual growth survey also looks at social and employment aspects. this year's report focused on social policy, the social charter and protocol, followed by employment policy, action to combat unemployment and economic growth. the economic priorities of last year's report remain, but 2016 highlights the priorities of a return to investment, responsible fiscal policies and the structural reforms needed to modernise the economy. in order to allow a better analysis of macroeconomic inequalities, new variables such as long-term unemployment, activity rates and youth unemployment have been included. i support this report because it stresses the need to invest in social development. it is not only a means of guaranteeing sustainable and inclusive economic development but also a priority in its own right. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. in order to meet the needs of the labour market and to provide the necessary employment for eu citizens, these priorities must not be neglected. i welcome the report's recommendations for investment in child care, rehabilitation services and health in general. economic and social cohesion should remain the primary objective of all european union policies.
written. ‒ i voted against the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social policy aspects in the annual growth survey 2016, as i believe that member states should try to tackle social policy bottlenecks in a flexible way and reduce the number of poor and excluded people or those threatened with such a situation. since i do not believe that a common analysis and definition of the social and economic dimension strategies of the member states can be consolidated within the european union, i believe that structural reforms will not strengthen the business environment in order to create more quality jobs and achieve a balance between the social and economic dimension. i believe that good jobs are the foundation of social justice, because they promote human dignity, and that employment and growth must be at the heart of european union policy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the governance of the single market in the european semester 2016 because i believe that the single market is crucial for inclusive growth and job creation across the european union. the process of further integration of the single market must be accompanied by better governance and greater transparency. it is also important to emphasise that the eu is facing the challenge of digitalisation and it is therefore essential to direct investment towards the ict sector, research and development in order to contribute to the competitiveness of the single market through concrete measures. there are still some barriers and obstacles that need to be overcome to further integrate the eu's single market.
written. ‒ the main challenges for the management of the single market in the european semester 2016 are the coordination of different policies and the transposition of regulations into national legislation. achieving a full single market will make it easier to overcome the many obstacles faced by smes, particularly in the area of bureaucracy at national and intergovernmental level, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ the report highlights the huge potential of the single market, but unfortunately this potential has not yet been fully realised. i welcome the measures proposed in this report, which relate to a system of monitoring and regular assessment of progress in the field of single market integration and which should encourage member states to implement single market laws more effectively. i am convinced, and i agree with the rapporteur, that through a more successful integration of the single market we will achieve the desired structural economic growth more quickly, which is of particular importance for those member states, such as croatia, which are still struggling with the consequences of the economic crisis. i hope that by supporting the measures outlined in this report, we will send a clear message to the national authorities of all member states that more effective work on the integration of the single market is essential for the future economic prosperity of the union as a whole.
written. ‒ the single market is one of the foundations of the eu, it forms the backbone of the member states' economies and of the european integration project as a whole. i would point out that it is the economic benefits that create the single market, such as product standardisation and market integration, economies of scale, increased competition and a level playing field for 500 million consumers in 28 member states, which in the first place gives consumers a wider choice of high quality products and services and lower prices. i welcome the fact that the commission has simplified the new european semester process and understands that the number of country-specific recommendations has been reduced in order to adopt recommendations that place more emphasis on national priorities. i regret the fact that there are serious shortcomings in several member states in the implementation of the services directive, which covers activities accounting for more than 45% of gdp and jobs in the eu, inter alia, because of numerous national rules and regulations that are not always in line with the public interest. i would stress that the public procurement market represents a large part of the entire single market and contributes significantly to the growth of entrepreneurship, employment and competitiveness in the member states. the commission's communication on the single market and the digital single market, which was adopted by the european parliament and the council on 14 june 2013, sets out the main objectives of the single market and the single market strategy.
written. ‒ i fully support the report by my colleague catherine stihler on the governance of the single market in the european semester 2016. the eu faces a number of challenges, such as high unemployment rates, slow economic growth and strong international competition. to mitigate the negative effects of these challenges, the eu is seeking to increase stability, promote growth and employment and strengthen competitiveness through the european semester, which aims to better coordinate fiscal and economic policies in the 28 member states, and strengthening competitiveness and the economy is of great importance for the future of the eu. in managing the single market, one of the foundations of the eu and its greatest achievement, the importance of developing human capital through ensuring access to information and appropriate education in order to raise awareness and knowledge levels must be mentioned. it is of concern that information on public consultations is in the vast majority of cases available in only one language, which results in not all stakeholders being able to comment on important proposals and issues. furthermore, effective single market governance depends, inter alia, on incentives and clear accountability for the implementation and application of single market-related legislation, and also benefits competition and better regulation, which can lead to enhanced economic growth, increased employment and competitiveness.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the european semester aims to better coordinate economic and fiscal policies in all 28 eu member states in order to increase stability, promote growth and employment and strengthen competitiveness. the single market is one of the eu's foundations and one of its greatest achievements. in order to successfully stimulate economic growth and stabilise economies, the european semester must cover equally the single market and the policies aimed at its finalisation. the single market forms the backbone of the economies of the member states and of the european integration project as a whole, including the economic benefits that the single market creates, such as product standardisation and market integration, economies of scale, increased competition and a level playing field for 500 million consumers in 28 member states, which primarily gives consumers a wider choice of high-quality products and services and lower prices. i therefore support the fact that the commission has simplified the new european semester process and that the number of country-specific recommendations has been reduced in order to adopt recommendations that place more emphasis on national priorities. i welcome the single market strategy because the various commission measures (capital markets union, digital single market, energy union, etc.) are geared towards the main objective of exploiting the potential of the eu single market.
written. ‒ the single market report is submitted annually as part of the european semester. it is a report on the initiatives needed to create the single market, an important instrument for strengthening the european union's competitiveness, generating growth and creating jobs. increased competitiveness, a level playing field, product standardisation and market integration are just some of the economic benefits that come from achieving the single market. this will provide consumers with a wider choice and lower prices of high-quality products and services and will facilitate cooperation between smes. the promotion of the single market will generate structural and sustainable economic growth and increase investment in new jobs. i support the report and the guidelines it sets out, considering it necessary to create an enabling environment for the development of entrepreneurship, to encourage cooperation and competitiveness among smes and thus to exploit the industrial potential of technological innovation and research. i support the modernisation of the professional qualifications directive as the changes will make it easier to recognise qualifications and allow for easier mobility of eu citizens. in particular, i welcome the call for the abolition of unjustified territorial restrictions, denial of access on the basis of geographical location, which will prevent discrimination in access to goods and services and discrimination on the basis of nationality and geographical location.
written. ‒ i supported the report which stresses the need for better governance and greater transparency of the single market integration process in the member states because i believe it respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i also agree with the recognised need for effective implementation, application and enforcement of single market law and believe that further development and strengthening of existing mechanisms, tools and instruments is necessary to enhance governance. in view of the demonstrated willingness to take all the necessary steps to effectively address possible problems primarily at member state level and to involve national parliaments in the coordination of single market priorities, i voted in favour of adopting the report on the governance of the single market in the european semester 2016.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia as it strengthens trade relations with tunisia, helps its fragile economy and contributes to the stability of the region. the eu and tunisia will continue to cooperate in the field of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, including through the development of a comprehensive and integrated energy policy. the financial and technical assistance provided by the european union to tunisia will be crucial for the trade negotiations and for the social and economic reforms that need to be launched as soon as possible. however, i consider it particularly important to take account of the interests of the european economy and of european businessmen and enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to protect their interests and the european single market.
written. ‒ tunisia has strengthened its democratic transition since 2011 by promulgating a new constitution on 26 january 2014 and holding parliamentary and presidential elections in november 2014. the eu-tunisia trade agreement would not only contribute to economic stability, but also strengthen democracy and reduce inequality. the agreement should take into account the economic differences between the two parties and take into account local specificities, culture and socio-economic characteristics. the democratic transition in tunisia is the most successful in the region and the union is thus providing support for the further development of the stability of the political system, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ the signing of the eu-tunisia free trade agreement will contribute to strengthening the already very active economic cooperation with tunisia. the european union is one of tunisia's most important trading partners and the signing of this agreement will allow greater access for european products to the tunisian market. the signing of the free trade agreement is not only important from the economic side, it is also a clear political message. the union will send a message through such an agreement that it supports democratic reforms in this north african country. tunisia is one of the few countries where the arab spring change of power did not lead to bloodshed, but the country made significant progress in democratization. i am therefore confident that the signing of this agreement will encourage the tunisian authorities to continue implementing economic and political reforms. i call for the protection of the interests of eu farmers, and in particular olive oil producers, to be taken into account in the implementation of the agreement itself.
written. ‒ the first trade cooperation agreement between the two parties was concluded in 1969, and tunisia was the first country from the southern mediterranean coast to sign an association agreement with the european union in 1995. the union is also the largest trading partner of tunisia and tunisia is the 34th trading partner of the union. in line with the objectives set out in the european neighbourhood policy and the euro-mediterranean agreement, the best way for the union to help the tunisian economy is to provide an attractive and reliable market for tunisian exports, which is why i support the opening of negotiations with tunisia in october last year. in anticipation of the conclusion of the negotiations on the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) and in response to the economic crisis in tunisia and to support the implementation of the necessary political reforms, the european union has approved an increase in macro-financial assistance to tunisia of eur 300 million to be disbursed in 2015 in three tranches of eur 100 million. the eu should continue to provide assistance to tunisia and step up its assistance in parallel with the negotiations. it shall also provide appropriate and appropriate financial and technical assistance during the negotiations and later in the implementation of the provisions of the agreement and develop a genuine partnership in which the interests of the people on both sides of the mediterranean can be taken into account.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the trade partnership is only part of a larger project within the framework of the neighbourhood relations between the european union and tunisia, established by the 1995 mediterranean association agreement, which governs the implementation of free trade and provisions on agriculture and services. the eu-tunisia association council adopted on 17 march 2015 a new action plan, which establishes a privileged partnership with a view to achieving a higher degree of economic integration. the union and tunisia have agreed to cooperate in the development of a comprehensive and effective system of trade facilitation and cooperation between the union and tunisia, including through the development of a comprehensive trade policy and a comprehensive trade policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-tunisia free trade agreement (fta) and its implementation in the context of the eu-tunisia association agreement (afta) and the eu-tunisia association agreement (eu-tunisia agreement) and will continue to monitor the implementation of the fta and its implementation in the context of the eu-tunisia association agreement (eu-tunisia agreement). i am of the opinion that this agreement is not only important because of its commercial dimension and that it should certainly aim to contribute to the stability of tunisia, to the strengthening of its democracy and to the stimulation of its economy, which will at the same time have a positive impact on consumer prices and employment, the wages of skilled and unskilled workers and the reduction of inequalities.
‒ international relations between tunisia and the european union go back a long way in history. the first trade cooperation agreement was concluded in 1969. negotiations on a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia were opened on 13 october 2015. the negotiations are of great political importance for the stabilisation and social and economic recovery of tunisia, which has suffered great losses in the process of democratization. the council of europe adopted a new action plan in march last year, establishing a privileged partnership to achieve the goal of greater economic integration. the european union considers tunisia to be one of the priority countries in its neighbourhood policy towards the southern mediterranean countries. the agreement will also benefit the populations of europe and tunisia. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement and to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement. tunisia, by implementing a democratic and political transition, is setting an example for the entire middle east and north africa region. economic development is closely linked to political stability, and i therefore support the opening of negotiations, believing that this trade agreement can provide additional support to tunisia in its democratic transition towards a stable pluralistic society.
written. ‒ i supported the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of tunisia, as i consider tunisia to be one of the priority countries of the european union's neighbourhood policy when it comes to the southern mediterranean countries. in the light of the fact that tunisia is the most successful democratic transition in the region and has chosen a single political model of economic development among the countries of the southern mediterranean, i believe that the union must take all possible measures to support tunisia's further transition. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement, including through the exchange of information and best practices, in order to ensure that the parties are able to implement the agreement in a timely manner. i hold that this agreement is mutually beneficial.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the annual report on the european ombudsman's activities during 2014 because i believe that this institution, headed by the european ombudsman emily o'reilly, has really done a good job in the area of transparency in the eu institutions, transparency of lobbying and clinical trials, fundamental rights and ethical issues and eu competition policy. in the same year, 23 072 citizens requested assistance from the ombudsman, in the form of complaints or requests for information, which were successfully dealt with. the ombudsman opened 342 inquiries in 2014, 325 of which were based on complaints and the remaining 17 were own-initiative inquiries, which is certainly particularly appreciated and supported. transparency is essential for good governance, and i therefore approve this report and vote for it.
written. ‒ the ombudsman is responsible for receiving complaints in cases of inefficient, poor or contentious administration at the level of the eu institutions. over the years, 20-30% of complaints related to transparency issues and were most often related to the refusal of institutions to grant access to documents and/or information. in 2014, the ombudsman opened 325 proceedings on the basis of complaints received, 17 on his own initiative and closed 387 proceedings. in the run-up to the european elections, the ombudsman organised an interactive event 'your wish list for europe' with the aim of putting citizens at the heart of the decision-making process. i supported the ombudsman's 2014 report.
written. ‒ i welcome the report of the european ombudsman, ms o'reilly, on the work of her office in 2014. i would like to begin by giving a high rating to the ombudsman's relations with parliament and the commission, and to commend the importance he attaches to these relations in his work. i am pleased to commend the ombudsman's efforts in shedding light on a number of cases relating to transparency, particularly in the field of the work of the european union institutions. transparency in the work of the union institutions, in particular the commission and the council, is one of the key preconditions for increasing citizens' trust in the european institutions. i call on parliament to support this report and express the hope that the successful cooperation of the european ombudsman o'reilly so far will continue this year and that the resolution of complaints about the transparency of the eu institutions will contribute to the gradual strengthening of the trust of the so-called 'ordinary' citizens throughout the union in its institutions.
written. ‒ the european ombudsman's main priority is to ensure that citizens' rights are fully respected and that the right to good administration reflects the highest standards applied and expected of the union's institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. according to the eurobarometer survey of may 2015, 40% of citizens have confidence in the european union, and 46% do not. any citizen of the union and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state shall have the right to address the european ombudsman in respect of any irregularity in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the union, with the exception of the court of justice of the european union in the exercise of its judicial powers. the close cooperation between the ombudsman and the committee of representatives has contributed to achieving a higher level of democratic scrutiny of the activities of the european institutions. i welcome and support the fact that the ombudsman is increasingly using her powers to open strategic investigations on her own initiative. i welcome the 80% compliance rate of the eu institutions with the ombudsman's proposals and express my concern that there is still a 20% non-compliance rate.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the annual report on the european ombudsman's activities during 2014 was formally handed over to the president of the european parliament on 26 may 2015 and presented by the european ombudsman emily o'reilly to the committee on petitions on 23 june 2015 in brussels. at its plenary session held on 16 december 2014 in strasbourg, the parliament re-elected emily oreilly as european ombudsman. the european ombudsman's main priority is to ensure that citizens' rights are fully respected and that the right to good administration reflects the highest standards applied and expected of the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the european ombudsman has a key role to play in helping the eu institutions become more open, efficient and responsive to citizens in order to strengthen citizens' trust in the union, and he has therefore endorsed the report.
written. ‒ the european ombudsman's top priority is to ensure that citizens' rights are fully respected and he has a key role to play in helping the union's institutions become more open, more efficient and more responsive to citizens. according to a may 2015 survey, 40% of eu citizens have confidence in the union, 46% do not. in 2014, 23 072 citizens requested the assistance of the ombudsman and 342 investigations were opened. the average time it took to complete a single investigation was 11 months. the ombudsman's inquiry into the allegations of fraud and corruption in the european union's institutions, which was opened in 2014, was considered by parliament to be a good opportunity to raise awareness of the seriousness of the situation and to provide the ombudsman with information on the allegations of fraud and corruption. parliament also encourages the ombudsman to continue to support initiatives aimed at achieving greater transparency and calls on the member states to be more proactive in their mandatory cooperation with the ombudsman. i support this report because i believe that the european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, has achieved excellent results in her work. i also support its objective of assisting the union institutions in their efforts to provide the best possible service to european citizens. i believe the ombudsman's emphasis on transparency as a guarantee of good governance is crucial.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the 2014 annual report of the european central bank, taking into account its contribution to resolving the economic crisis, achieving macroeconomic stability, boosting investment, consumption and economic growth. the commission should continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. in particular, a more favourable financing rate should be provided for small and medium-sized enterprises. private and public investment are still significantly lower than before the crisis. the impact of the asset purchase programme on monetary and credit policy has been positive but still modest. in this sense, inflation expectations have started to rise and the risk of a deflationary spiral has been reduced. it is necessary to continue with monetary policy measures that make the euro area attractive for investment. the independence of the ecb should be respected and its role in preserving financial stability and promoting central bank transparency is important. it is important that the ecb's supervisory and monetary policy functions are clearly separated. i welcome president draghi's willingness to inform the ep of the ecb's positions.
‒ the european central bank (ecb) cut interest rates to the effective floor and the interest rate on money deposits to -0,20% in 2014. in 2014, the ecb launched a series of targeted longer-term refinancing operations (tltros) and purchase programmes for selected private sector securities to stimulate lending to the real economy. the report notes the need to reduce market fragmentation and the burden of debt on smes. furthermore, conditions for public and private investment need to be improved in order to stimulate growth and job creation. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of the european economy and the banking system is key in lending to them to provide them with opportunities to increase competitiveness and growth. i supported the 2014 ecb report because i believe that the ecb has taken important measures to stimulate investment and growth.
written. ‒ the annual report of the european central bank is an important document because, in addition to providing an overview of the implementation of monetary policy, it also provides forecasts that can act as guidelines and incentives for achieving higher economic growth, reducing unemployment and public debt and increasing investment in the period ahead. i agree that low energy prices, if maintained at current levels for at least several months, with inflation of up to 2%, will be a significant factor in boosting competitiveness and job creation in 2016. the report on the ecb's annual report for 2014 identified problems hampering economic progress. these are certainly differences between the sme funding rate, the interest rates on small and large loans and the conditions of lending to smes in different countries of the euro area, and the same can be said for the whole eu area. we must all work together to reduce the existing disparity. i also support the commission's efforts to facilitate access to finance for smes and to increase cross-border investment. i am concerned, as are the members of the committee responsible, about the high level of public and private debt in some member states, including unfortunately croatia, and we must therefore find mechanisms to bring it within acceptable limits.
written. ‒ according to the commission's latest autumn forecast, the euro area expects the economic recovery to strengthen and real gdp is projected to grow by 1,4 % in 2015, 1,7 % in 2016 and 1,8 % in 2017. a strong political commitment to implementing sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is key to boosting economic growth. i therefore support the work of the european central bank and stress its importance in times of crisis. the central bank has a positive and key role and contributes with its unconventional monetary policy operations. monetary policy, however, does not operate in a vacuum. i would like to emphasize that there are limits to what monetary policy can achieve. therefore, we need more targeted investments and positive, socially balanced, structural reforms to ensure optimal outcomes.
written. ‒ according to the latest commission autumn forecast, the euro area is expected to strengthen its economic recovery and real gdp is expected to grow by 1,4 % in 2015, 1,7 % in 2016 and 1,8 % in 2017. however, the foundations for growth are not the most stable. a strong political commitment to implementing sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is key to boosting economic growth. it is well known that smes are the backbone of the european economy and that the banking system is key to enabling competitiveness and growth. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the medium term, in particular through the implementation of the european union's macro-financial assistance programme. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. private and public investment in the euro area remains at a significantly lower level than before the current crisis, despite the ecb taking the necessary measures to maintain favourable financing conditions. the establishment of the escb and the commission's plan to establish a genuine capital markets union are therefore of considerable importance. such initiatives should lead to diversification of sources of financing in the union economy, increase cross-border investment and access to financing for enterprises, in particular smes. i therefore support the report by my colleague, mr notis marias.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the commission's latest autumn forecast expects the euro area economic recovery to strengthen and real gdp to grow by 1,4 % in 2015, 1,7 % in 2016 and 1,8 % in 2017. the foundations for growth are fragile, and a strong political commitment to sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is key to boosting economic growth. i therefore expect the ecb to contribute to the general economic policies in the union and to the achievement of their objectives in accordance with article 282 tfeu, provided that their primary objective of maintaining price stability is not jeopardised. i would stress that the ecb's contribution involves making efforts to increase the supply of low-cost credit to the real economy and to stimulate economic recovery, i.e. job creation, growth and stability. i welcome the project of a capital markets union and the possibility of restoring balance to the funding channels through it, not by reducing or maintaining funding opportunities, but by increasing and diversifying them, thus contributing to reducing the excessive dependence of the euro area economies on the banking system and allowing the necessary absorption of shocks in monetary union.
written. ‒ this is the annual report on the work and activities of the european central bank, which is presented at the initiative of parliament itself. this report covers the period in which the ecb used unconventional measures to counter very low inflation rates. the report highlights that many member states are facing high unemployment and that economic growth needs to be boosted. private and public investment in the euro area remains below pre-crisis levels. improving the conditions for public and private investment is needed to stimulate growth and job creation. the rapporteur considers that the bank has exceeded its mandate in its relationship with the troika. 283 amendments to the report have been proposed. informal negotiations were held between the epp, s&d and alde, which resulted in a number of compromises. i support this annual report of the european central bank because i believe that the recommendations made in it are useful and necessary for the further economic progress of the member states.
written. ‒ in this report, which is the european parliament's response to the european central bank's annual report 2014, the rapporteur takes a critical look at the ecb's unconventional monetary policy instruments. in addition, particular emphasis is placed on the importance of the ecb's independence in the conduct of monetary policy and on the need for thorough assessments of the working methods of the tripartite commission, which is chaired by the european commission together with the european central bank and the international monetary fund, with which i fully agree. however, most of the representatives in the committee did not want to accept the very carefully worded criticism that the ecb had overstepped its authority in some elements, which i consider very dangerous. although presented with a degree of caution, the european central bank's annual report is in some paragraphs quite unrealistic. yes, there are small improvements, in some member states the recovery is greater, in others it is less, but in the end we all know that the economic situation in europe is still nowhere near recovery. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand because i believe that it is extremely important to strengthen relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region, because this can contribute to economic growth within europe, and this will also be reflected in the european union's trade policy. australia and new zealand are important partners of the eu, share the same values and are committed to promoting prosperity and security globally within a system based on international law. i believe that an agreement between these three advanced economies can make a concrete contribution to investment, trade in goods and services and i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
‒ australia and new zealand are considered the eu's oldest and closest partners and this agreement allows for further strengthening of bilateral trade relations. in view of the sensitivity of agriculture, it is necessary to take into account the characteristics and specificities of the agricultural sector in the union. in addition to farmers, the needs and interests of small and medium-sized enterprises should be taken into account in the context of facilitating market access. i supported this resolution because i believe it will have a positive impact on achieving growth in the european union.
written. ‒ statistics show that australia and new zealand are today among the fastest growing economies in the world, and these two countries have had close trade links with the european union for many years. the signing of a free trade agreement with both australia and new zealand will bring mutual benefits and enhance the already highly active trade cooperation with these two countries. australia and new zealand are close to the european union not only in terms of shared values and interests but also in terms of their shared views on important international issues, such as the fight against terrorism or tackling climate change. it is also worth noting at this stage that the outcome of the negotiations, which can contribute to a better placement of competitive european agricultural products on that market by removing existing barriers, should not jeopardise the application of the eu's high standards for the placement of australian and new zealand agricultural products on the eu market.
written. ‒ the announced free trade agreements with australia and new zealand fit into the new trade and investment strategy, which emphasises the need to strengthen the presence in the asia-pacific region, which is why i support the opening of negotiations. the commission considers that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that the commission should be able to impose a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of the product concerned originating in the prc. australia and new zealand are among the fastest growing developed economies. together, these two countries are already valuable eu partners with eu exports of €34.1 billion in goods (2014) and €21.0 billion in services (2013). australia is 15th, while new zealand is the 50th largest export market for goods to the eu. while the eu-australia and new zealand framework agreements will enhance political and sectoral cooperation between the parties, there is also untapped potential in the area of trade, investment and economic cooperation. in the negotiations, negotiators must not be burdened by time pressure but must first represent the interests of european producers and consumers. i hope that the issue of the recognition of products protected by geographical origin will be negotiated early and that the recognition of this protection will finally be secured in new zealand.
written. ‒ i support the motions for resolutions on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand, countries which strongly and consistently take up the multilateral trade agenda. australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners, share the same values and are committed to promoting prosperity and security globally within a rules-based system. the eu, australia and new zealand are working to address common challenges related to a range of different issues and are cooperating in several international fora. they are two of only six wto member states that still do not have preferential access to the eu market and are not participating in negotiations to that end, and both fully respect the rule of law and are currently strongly protecting the environment and human, social and labour rights. new zealand is one of the few countries that the european commission has found to have an adequate level of protection of personal data, which is a key fundamental right alongside respect for privacy. the conclusion of modern, ambitious, uniform and comprehensive agreements takes economic relations to a new level, which is very important for the development and improvement of the eu. strengthening the eu's relationship with the asia-pacific region is also key to europe's economic growth, which is reflected in the eu's trade policy.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners, share the same values and are committed to promoting prosperity and security globally within a rules-based system. the eu, australia and new zealand are working together to address common challenges related to a range of different issues and are cooperating in several international fora. the negotiations on two separate, modern, ambitious, harmonised and comprehensive free trade agreements with australia and new zealand, in line with the specific characteristics of those economies, represent a pragmatic way of strengthening bilateral partnerships and further strengthening already established bilateral trade and investment relations. the agreements should take full account of the needs and interests of smes in terms of facilitating market access in a specific chapter in order to create concrete business opportunities. i also think it is important to include a sustainable development chapter in the free trade agreement with australia and new zealand and that is why i supported it.
written. ‒ australia and new zealand are among the european union's oldest and closest partners, sharing the same values and equally committed to promoting prosperity and security globally. all three sides work together to address common challenges and cooperate in several international fora. australia and new zealand are two of only six wto member states that do not have privileged access to the eu market. both countries fully respect the rule of law and strongly protect environmental, human, social and labour rights. the eu is the third most important trading partner of both australia and new zealand. the full potential of the european union's strategy for bilateral and regional cooperation can be realised if high-quality free trade agreements are concluded with australia and new zealand. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests. i support the proposals expressed in this motion for a resolution because i believe it is important to strengthen the relations between the european union and the asia-pacific region for the economic growth of europe. i believe that australia and new zealand are key to this strategy and that strengthening trade with new partners can help achieve this goal.
‒ the eu, australia and new zealand are like-minded partners with many shared values and interests, committed to promoting global prosperity and security within a rules-based system, and aligned on key global issues such as human rights, security, development and the environment. the importance of strengthening relations with these countries is unquestionable, as this will ultimately be reflected in the european union's trade policy. australia and new zealand are key to this strategy and expanding and strengthening trade with these partners can contribute to this objective, namely the economic strengthening of all member states. that's why i voted yes. but what we must not overlook is the signing of the trans-pacific partnership between the united states and the countries of the pacific rim and the growing commercial presence of china in that part of the world. it is therefore essential to open negotiations as soon as possible in order to keep the eu as a global player vis-à-vis the 12 countries of the recently signed trans-pacific partnership and to minimise any possible economic losses for the eu.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pets in the member states because the number of illegal pet trade has increased dramatically in recent years. in addition to posing a public health risk, pet trafficking is increasingly linked to organised crime within the eu. i consider that owners should be able to travel with their pets in a safe and controlled manner throughout the union and that member states should harmonise the mandatory systems for the identification and registration of pets in order to address those problems.
‒ non-governmental organisations, competent authorities and veterinarians point to the increasing prevalence of illegal pet trade in the european union. pet passports lack accurate information and are often falsified. as a result, pets trafficked by illegal breeders are often in poor physical condition, poorly socialized and at higher risk of disease. one of the largest transnational activities of organised crime is the trade in animals. i supported the motion for a resolution on the uniform procedures for the registration of pets, which is important for reducing the extent of document forgery and their illegal trade.
written. ‒ the illegal trade in pets is a problem not only from the point of view of organised crime but also from the point of view of public health and consumer protection, as animals can be carriers of hundreds of different diseases that can also be dangerous for humans. the introduction of compatible pet registration systems should therefore be a priority for the european parliament in order to allow not only the addition of safety features to the pet passport and the introduction of a new minimum age for rabies vaccination, but also to reduce the health risks to animal and human health arising from such commercial activities.
‒ ngos, law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and veterinarians have pointed to the existence of a growing illegal pet trade in the context of serious and organised crime, with widespread abuse of the pet movement regulation, avoidance of controls and document forgery. there are still major problems with the data contained in pet passports, in particular as regards the way in which the accuracy of the data on the age of an individual animal can be checked. pets trafficked by illegal breeders are often poorly bred, poorly socialized and at higher risk of disease. the illegal wildlife trade is one of the largest transnational organised crime activities in the world. owners should be able to travel with their pets in a safe and controlled manner throughout the union. i welcome the fact that regulation (eu) no 576/2013 aims to improve the pet movement regulation and that this also concerns the additional security features of pet passports.
written. ‒ ngos, law enforcement bodies, competent authorities and veterinarians have pointed to the existence of an increasing illegal pet trade and widespread abuse of the pet transfer regulation, evasion of controls and falsification of documents. the abuse of the pet removal regulation is estimated to be the third most profitable branch of illicit trafficking in the eu, after drug and arms trafficking, and the illegal wildlife trade is one of the largest transnational organised crime activities in the world. non-governmental organisations, law enforcement bodies and competent authorities increasingly link the illegal trade in pet animals to serious and organised crime and, despite recent improvements, there are still major problems with pet passport data, in particular as regards the way in which the accuracy of the age data of individual animals can be verified. it is important to emphasise that pets trafficked by illegal breeders are often poorly bred, poorly socialised and at higher risk of disease, and 70% of new diseases that have emerged in humans over the last few decades are of animal origin. animals commonly kept as pets are carriers of more than 100 zoonotic diseases, including rabies. for the reasons set out above, i support the motions for resolutions on the introduction of compatible pet registration systems in the member states.
‒ ngos, law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and veterinarians have noted an increase in illegal pet trade with widespread abuse of the pet movement regulation, avoidance of controls and document forgery. despite recent improvements, there are still major problems with the data contained in pet passports, in particular as regards the way in which the accuracy of the data on the age of an individual animal can be checked. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the animal health legislation in the member states is not yet fully compliant with the animal health requirements of the animal health legislation of the member states. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ non-governmental organisations as well as law enforcement bodies, competent authorities and veterinarians point to the existence of a growing illegal pet trade. it is estimated that it is the third most profitable illegal trade in the union, after drug and arms trafficking, and the illegal pet trade is increasingly linked to serious and organised crime. pets trafficked by illegal breeders are often poorly bred, poorly socialised and at high risk of disease, and there have been cases of sudden death of pets. 70% of the new diseases that have appeared in humans in the last decades originate from animals because of inadequate care. the schengen area allows citizens to move freely between member states and thus facilitates the uncontrolled movement of animals within the union. i support the proposals set out in this resolution because i believe that the introduction of compatible systems of pet identification and registration conditions would reduce the scope for document forgery and illicit trade, thereby protecting public and animal health. i also believe that pets are a positive contribution for many owners and families and that they could travel in a safe and controlled way across the eu.
written. ‒ ngos, law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and veterinarians have pointed to an increase in illegal pet trade, with widespread abuse of the pet movement regulation, evasion of controls and document forgery. it is a worrying fact that this abuse of the regulation is the third most profitable branch of illicit trade in the eu, after drug and arms trafficking. most member states already have some type of conditions for harmonising registration and/or standardisation in relation to the method of identification of pet animals, and many of those databases are not interconnected, which makes it impossible to fully trace pet movements across member states' borders. the positive contribution of pets to the lives of millions of individual owners and families across the eu is unquestionable and owners should therefore be able to travel with their pets in a safe and controlled manner throughout the union. it is for that reason that it is necessary to introduce compatible systems for the registration of pet animals in the member states. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen because i believe that we must act as soon as possible to resolve the current problematic situation which is leading to a deterioration in relations between iran and saudi arabia, with the consequences being felt by innocent civilians. children, women and men, the death toll is truly too high, and it is sad that peace and stability in yemen seems so far away and elusive at this time. i believe that stability and security must become the bedrock of this state, with a government that will be central to international efforts to combat extremism and violence in the region and beyond. i also believe that the crisis in yemen can be resolved in the long term through inclusive political dialogue.
written. ‒ the political and humanitarian crisis in yemen threatens to destabilise the entire region and i therefore consider it extremely important to achieve a lasting ceasefire as soon as possible. the suffering of civilians in this country engulfed in bloody conflict, where millions of people are in need of humanitarian aid, must not leave us indifferent. i would like to draw attention first of all to the plight of children in yemen, who are one of the most vulnerable groups affected by the humanitarian crisis in yemen and who are threatened by food and medicine shortages. the human rights situation in yemen, which is also mentioned in this resolution, is also a cause for concern. since the beginning of the conflict, cases of torture of civilians, especially members of religious minorities, attacks on journalists, their enforced disappearance, etc. have been frequent. the establishment of a lasting peace and the start of a democratic process in yemen can only contribute to ending human rights violations. i call on the warring parties in yemen to enter into negotiations for a peaceful resolution of the crisis. i also appeal to saudi arabia and its allies on the one hand, and iran on the other, to support the process of yemen's exit from the crisis through diplomatic efforts.
written. ‒ the saudi-led military intervention in yemen has led to a catastrophic humanitarian situation affecting the population of the entire country, has serious consequences for the region and is a threat to international peace and security. since 26 march 2015, saudi arabia, led by a us-backed coalition of the united arab emirates, qatar, bahrain, kuwait, jordan, morocco and sudan, has been bombing yemen in a campaign of attacks aimed at restoring hadi to power, with the combined impact of the intense attacks affecting 80% of yemen's population of 26 million. it is estimated that there are currently nearly 2.1 million undernourished people, including more than 1.3 million children suffering from severe and acute malnutrition, and 14.4 million people are food insecure. access to education has been stopped for almost 2 million children. basic health care has been cut off for nearly half a million children under the age of five. for this reason, i strongly condemn the sale of arms to saudi arabia and i support the amendment to impose an arms embargo on saudi arabia in the context of violations of international humanitarian law. i would like to stress further the importance of finding a political solution to end the fighting in yemen and bring peace.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the current conflict in yemen is caused by the failure of successive governments to meet the democratic, economic and social aspirations of the yemeni people, fuelling the discontent and division that has led to the current violence. the situation in yemen poses a serious threat to the stability of the region, in particular the horn of africa, the red sea and the wider middle east. a stable and secure yemen with a properly functioning government is crucial to international efforts to combat extremism and violence in the region and beyond, as well as to peace and stability within yemen itself. that is why i am deeply concerned about the continuing violence in yemen and the resulting humanitarian crisis that is affecting millions of innocent men, women and children. i condemn all violence, attempts to use violence and threats to use violence to intimidate the parties involved in the un-brokered consultations. i also call on all yemeni parties to respond to future talks, to participate in them without preconditions and in good faith, and to resolve their differences through dialogue and consultation, to reject the use of violence to pursue political goals, and to refrain from provocation and any unilateral action aimed at undermining the political transition.
written. ‒ the current conflict is caused by the inability of the government to meet the democratic, economic and social aspirations of the yemeni people. the situation in yemen poses a serious threat to the stability of the region, in particular to the horn of africa, the red sea and the wider middle east. the houthi rebels, backed by iran, and a coalition of arab countries led by saudi arabia are locked in a conflict that is dragging the region into a complex conflict. the fighting between the paramilitary groups has had a major humanitarian impact on the civilian population and is reaching alarming proportions. parliament urges all parties to the conflict to try to resolve their disputes through dialogue, as only a political solution can lead to lasting peace. it also calls for respect for international law and cooperation with the un. it also called on the yemeni parties to respond to and participate in good faith in future negotiations and to reject violence as a means of action. i support the proposals in this resolution because i believe that a stable and secure yemen, with a functioning government, is crucial to international efforts to combat extremism and violence in the region. i also believe that the violence must stop in order to provide the people of yemen with much-needed humanitarian assistance, especially the most vulnerable children who currently lack access to health care or food services.
written. ‒ the deteriorating security situation in yemen is a growing concern at the international level, given that at least 5700 people have been killed since the escalation of the conflict in march 2015, almost half of them civilians. houthi fighters have been accused of using heavy weapons in populated areas, while the saudi-led coalition has been accused of carrying out several airstrikes on hospitals and other civilian facilities. i express my deep concern at the continuing violence in yemen and the resulting humanitarian crisis affecting millions of innocent men, women and children. i believe that all the parties to the conflict in yemen, primarily saudi arabia and iran, who have a key role in resolving the crisis, should work to improve bilateral relations. the resolution of the european conservatives and reformists on yemen, which i co-authored, calls for respect for the human rights and freedoms of all yemeni citizens, as well as all persons working for peacekeeping and humanitarian missions in the country. i therefore appeal to all state and non-state actors involved in the conflict to work towards peace and reconciliation and to unconditionally engage in this process that will prevent further casualties.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you very much, mr. deputy, for accepting my blue card. you said that health care should be a purely national responsibility, that it should be within national boundaries. i really wonder how you can make such a statement when you know all the epidemics we have in the world today. we have the world health organization, so don't blame the european union and the existence of the european union every time when we know how important health is to us, especially when we have epidemics and pandemics on this globe. do you agree with me that i'm right?
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on the successful conclusion of the negotiations with the council and the european commission on this important act for european children, but also for croatian children. the harmonised text finally addresses the reasons that prevented the republic of croatia from participating in the use of the european union subsidies for healthy milk meals in schools. i have raised this issue many times before the committee on agriculture and rural development and before this house, and i am glad that my arguments have been accepted. the regulation provides a new market for agricultural producers by placing domestic, quality products in schools. the regulation also allows member states to include in their measures a wider range of agricultural products as well as other local, regional or national specialties such as honey, olive oil or table olives. this programme, besides having an educational role for our young people about what they should eat and that they should eat healthy and homemade, also has a social dimension because for poor children this meal will be the only meal they will eat.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. (start of speech not heard)...whatever money we have, if it is for our children and their welfare is welcome. i agree with you that the amounts should certainly be increased because the 250 million euros of subsidies for the whole european union through this distribution and the member countries that want to participate are certainly not enough for all the needs. i will just mention the example of croatia. according to the latest statistics, in croatia 17 thousand children are hungry, can not afford any meals in schools because their parents are poor. so, this is going to be a help, because they're going to get two healthy meals a week at school for free.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you, chairman, thank you, colleague. i've listened to you very carefully and i agree with you completely that this program is very important to ensure healthy food for children in schools, but also an educational program. however, do you think that this programme could also help small farmers to make sure that their products are the ones that come to school because they are the healthiest?
mr president, there are many positive developments in this report and everything that was agreed at the trialogue was very good. of course, i want to emphasize the importance of this report which speaks of the need for youth education, of the health of young people, and which emphasizes what is important to a young man. i also want to stress the importance of recognising the needs of croatia in this report and that croatian children will finally get what they really need. but i want to emphasize something that i think is particularly important, and that is the fact that they intend to incorporate local products, regional products as something that will be in schools because i believe that is what it means in particular for young people: to recognize their territory, to recognize their neighborhood in which they live and through the products that are created in that territory.
mr. president, the healthy diet of preschool and school-age children is a very important item in public health policies. i'm glad we've raised awareness of the importance of healthy eating, especially for children, because they're developing so fast. but i have to express regret that we have not developed an equal awareness of the harmful effects of subsidies on the global competitiveness of our economy. i agree that we need to facilitate the distribution of healthy food to educational institutions, especially in the passive areas, but i would like above all to encourage member states to simplify their tax systems and reduce the burden on companies, which then should not be too much of an incentive for such distribution. i believe that in this home, the welfare of the children is everyone's first priority, but she can hardly function without working parents with decent wages to support those children. i support this programme, but i think that in the future we must look at the welfare of children in a broader context because only a healthy and globally competitive economy can guarantee long-term prosperity for future generations of europeans.
mr. president, congratulations to mr. selimovic on this report. i must stress that animal health is important for the safety of the citizens of the european union and we are concerned about the increasing occurrence of bacterial resistance to antibiotics, which has recently become a growing public health and safety risk. the overuse of antimicrobials is contributing to the rapid emergence of new strains of bacteria resistant to new antibiotics. the overuse of antimicrobials is harmful to animal and human health and to consumers' perceptions of the food they eat. europe prides itself on high food quality and safety and high standards of animal welfare thanks to our hardworking farmers. these high standards are defended in international negotiations on international trade agreements. this regulation is the response to the widespread and unwise use of antimicrobials in veterinary medicine. it adopts measures such as the collection of relevant, comparable and sufficiently detailed data on the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals in the member states. those measures are necessary to make the use of those products more prudent and to contribute to reducing the risk of antimicrobial resistance. the animal owners are encouraged to adhere to the principles of good husbandry and responsible and supervised medication in the breeding process. this regulation also has a public health dimension as, in addition to the concern for animal health and welfare, the reasonable and proportionate use of antimicrobials in veterinary medicine, according to commission estimates, will directly affect 25 million people. (the speaker agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (article 162 (8) of the regulation))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. the common agricultural policy is the longest-running and most successful policy of the european union. therefore, i cannot agree with your finding. in addition, our farmers use antibiotics sensibly and this regulation will help to ensure that they continue to do so. europe must remain competitive in the quality of its food, and this is confirmed by our trading partners, who are really proud of the quality of the food produced in european countries. so if we want to maintain that level, we also have to use antibiotics in a smart way.
mr. president, animal diseases that harm animal welfare and that can, of course, harm human health. once mad cow disease, bird flu, today swine fever certainly threatens the animals themselves, but it also threatens human health. so i think this regulation that we want to bring in is a good regulation that does a good balance between what animal welfare means, but especially what human health means. i want to believe that this regulation will lead to far more effective and better regulation of animal health and, in particular, our health, and that is why i believe that the commission should do everything possible to bring these regulations into force as soon as possible within the eu, and especially with our partners from whom we import various animal products.
mr president, the report presents qualitative changes to the european commission's proposal. in particular, i welcome the rejection of a single management system as i believe that we need to respect the full diversity of the union's port system and strengthen the models of organisation of port services currently applied across the continent. i am pleased that the committee responsible recognised the potential of such diversity and put the emphasis on common minimum requirements and their effective implementation. unfortunately, in this house, too often, the emphasis is on bad universal solutions, and this report is a welcome exception to be supported. i believe that the report also stresses sufficiently the importance of financial transparency in the use of public funds, and the insistence on the principle of proportionality in the levying of a fee whose amount can no longer be disproportionate to the economic value of the service provided is also an important step in the right direction.
madam president, commissioner, in your speech you said that transparency is the taxpayer's best friend. i agree with you, and i'd add, best friend of the anti-corruption movement. it is therefore important that we now, in the 21st century, make it possible for the public, in all member states, to have a click on the internet to find out who has been paid, who are the project promoters and who are the project service providers. that's what's important because that way, those mechanisms will prevent those who have a conflict of interest from getting into the use of public money. they'll be afraid of the dog watch and the reaction of our citizens. the committee also stressed that education and the establishment of an irregularity database are essential for cohesion policy in order to be able to identify the frequency of the types of irregularity that occur, in particular for the purpose of preventive action. these are the key messages of the report.
madam president, i am absolutely in favour of greater social and political involvement of women because this would give us more scope and make public policies more successful, which would largely apply equally to both sexes. i also believe that our societies must give women equal treatment in the business world because it is the only right thing to do, and i am convinced that it would also be very beneficial for european companies because by including more women they would expand the pool of talent from which they draw valuable and quality workers for positions of responsibility. the european institutions must take the lead in this process and give women the opportunity to prove themselves through their knowledge and work in all positions. but i can't support this report because it's going in the wrong direction! i have never heard of a more outrageous proposal than the introduction of measures to reconcile business and private, or family life. we cannot allow politics to interfere in the private lives of citizens in this way and regulate relationships within their families. that's a policy that was not allowed even in some totalitarian systems, which speaks volumes about this proposal.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to congratulate you and all the women on tomorrow's international women's day. however, this report will do nothing to make him happy. this report will not contribute to improving the position of women, reducing their unemployment, adequately valuing their work at work and at home, reducing abuse and discrimination against women. the report will make the gender equality committee a super committee, above all other committees, which is contrary to the democratic and legal procedures of the european parliament. this report will unfortunately contribute to the generation of additional procedures, paperwork and bureaucracy and will contribute to a europe that is less and less, less and less transparent and less and less concerned about women's problems. so this report, unfortunately, i cannot support.
madam president, in the last 100 years, the production of garbage has increased tenfold. a significant part of it ends up in the sea, posing a serious threat to ecosystems and human health. marine litter is the result of exclusively human activities - it knows no borders and is a persistent problem that extends far beyond the source of pollution. that's why i want to talk about the problem of marine litter in the coastal area of croatia. it is found in large quantities on beaches and on the seabed, and is carried by currents and winds from the neighbouring adriatic countries. waste collection is mainly carried out on the initiative of local communities and associations, as recently in the town of trstenik. in addition to the environmental cost, marine litter has a socio-economic impact as it affects coastal communities, as clean coastlines are key to tourism. although this is not enough, it is worth praising the marelit and defishgear projects. the objective is for countries to work together to tackle marine litter more effectively in order to achieve together the important goal of good ecological status for all marine waters by 2020.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i want to ask you, mr. korwin-mikke, one question. i was a great basketball player, and as you can see i'm not very tall, but i played great basketball. did you know that to play great basketball, it's not the height that's important, it's whether you hit the basket or not? the same goes for everything else you said in your speech. do you agree with me that playing basketball is not about height?
madam president, madam commissioner, women today have a harder time finding a steady job than men and they face difficulties in starting their own business. women today do not receive adequate support to facilitate a work-life balance, and those who choose to become mothers are often punished by being paid less or, unfortunately, even losing their jobs. women are not paid the same as men for the same work, and they are often subject to discrimination and harassment in the workplace. although more women than men graduate from college, they are not later in senior decision-making positions. i am particularly concerned about the situation of women farmers who unfortunately often do not own land or property, who work on family farms and whose work is not only unpaid but also without health or pension insurance. i therefore call for a minimum national pension that is not below the poverty line, and for affordable health care in rural areas, because this is the minimum necessary for a decent life for rural women.
madam president, the figures show that women and children accounted for 38% of the total number of asylum seekers in 2015. despite months of propaganda to the contrary, the numbers clearly show that we have received far more able-bodied men than women and children. i wouldn't discriminate on the basis of gender if someone didn't have to defend and liberate the cities and villages in syria and iraq. if it's not going to be done by the men of the country, who will? we can help, but the biggest burden must be on the domestic forces. the rapporteur has unfortunately not learnt from these figures and the turbulence across europe and continues to promote open borders and a lax asylum policy. i also think it's at the very least incorrect to use the plight of women refugees and asylum seekers to promote abortion. i'm not in favor of closed borders, but i'm not in favor of open borders.
written. ‒ human and animal health are increasingly linked through our dietary habits and intensive farming methods, and therefore the antibiotics problem must be addressed through a 'one health' approach. the alarm bells have been ringing for a long time, and future generations may one day wonder why we have ruined one of the greatest medical achievements in history for profit. the eu has a unique opportunity under this law to contribute to the global effort to preserve the effectiveness of antibiotics.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the parliament and of the council on transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of animal health, as i consider that account should be taken of new diseases developing at global level, new trade patterns and the volume of trade in animals and products of animal origin. i believe that the new economic, health and social conditions require both accompanied adaptation and legislative harmonisation in the area of animal health. to this must be added scientific and technological developments and institutional changes within the union itself. i therefore support a balanced and effective law that directly links animal welfare and human health. however, on the other hand, special care is needed when it comes to veterinary medicinal products and antimicrobial resistance.
written. - according to recent research, animals are becoming more resistant to antibiotics and diseases are spreading among them. the report suggests implementing measures to reduce the spread of diseases, especially those that are transmissible to humans. i supported this report because it defines the rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which are transmissible to animals or humans.
written. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this regulation, which represents a significant step forward in the implementation of the action plan against the increased threat of antimicrobial resistance. the regulation lays down measures to collect relevant, comparable and sufficiently detailed data on the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals in the member states. those measures aimed at the prudent use of antimicrobials allow this act to emphasise the link between animal welfare and public health. prevention measures increase the quality of life of farmed animals, reduce the need for the use of those products and their reduced use allows for a longer period of safe use of antimicrobials until resistant strains of bacteria emerge. this also reduces the impact of antimicrobial resistance on people, as they are less exposed to antibiotic residues in food and to the persistence of antibiotic stocks in human medicine. it is in this public health interest of this regulation to focus on the quality of life of both humans and animals. the impact is also not negligible for the globally recognised safety and high quality of european food products, which results in a comparative advantage of european agriculture on third markets.
written. ‒ animal health law affects all animals in the eu, both domestic and wild, that can be affected by infectious diseases. in addition to the animals affected, this act also affects between 20 and 30 million people in the eu who are involved in working with animals. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of non-discrimination in the case of the use of animals for the purpose of animal health protection. accordingly, the responsible and prudent use of veterinary medicinal products and antibiotics in animals should be necessary and mandatory. for that reason, i support this bill which establishes a clear and transparent way to implement disease control measures to ultimately ensure that pain, misery and suffering are avoided when disease control measures are implemented.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal for a regulation as it focuses on the prevention of diseases that can have deadly consequences for animals and humans in the member states of the union and beyond. animal diseases such as avian or swine influenza are a threat to the economy, food safety and public health and therefore require comprehensive protection for animals and humans. the proposed regulation introduces a thorough categorisation of diseases, clarifies the definitions of responsibility for animals and their condition, and prioritises biosecurity, i.e. vaccination instead of shot, and the separation of sick animals from the rest of the animals and of new animals from old ones. in order to monitor the implementation of this regulation, member states should collect relevant, comparable and sufficiently detailed data on the use of antimicrobials in animals and submit those data to the commission in order to ensure the safe use of those products and to reduce the risk of antimicrobial resistance. the reports to be published by the commission on the basis of these data will help to further develop preventive measures against animal diseases in the eu member states.
written. ‒ this regulation lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals or humans, but it does not contain provisions specifically governing animal welfare, although animal health and welfare are linked. the union has a well-developed animal welfare legal framework covering different species (such as laying hens, laying hens, pigs, calves) or activities (such as farming, transport, slaughter, research, etc.). this animal welfare legislation will necessarily continue to apply. the commission fully supports the full attention to animal welfare in accordance with article 13 of the treaty and within the limits set thereby, including the full implementation and appropriate development of that legislation, and i therefore voted against the rejection of the council's position at first reading.
written. ‒ i voted against the proposal to reject the council's position and the proposal to bring together and update the different parts of european legislation in the field of animal health by means of a new law. in particular, many member states have mandatory systems for the identification and registration of pet animals, but i consider that there are differences between the types of data stored, the registrations and the management levels at which those data are stored. i believe that proper conditions for the identification and registration of dogs and cats would reduce the scope for document forgery and illegal trade. i also consider that the low vaccination rate of animals increases the risk of antimicrobial resistance in pets, which is an additional risk factor for the development and transmission of antimicrobial resistance in humans. i also support the establishment of a computerised database for dogs and cats to ensure effective disease control measures and to facilitate the movement of animals between member states of the european union, and therefore do not support the rejection of this proposal.
written. ‒ school fruit and milk schemes are an excellent programme to create healthy eating habits from an early age and allow farmers to place home-made products directly on the tables of school kitchens. i'm happy that my amendment was passed to exempt croatia from the historical criteria.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the support programmes for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments, due to the deterioration of children's nutrition, i.e. fewer fresh fruit and milk, and the increase in the consumption of processed food. in this context, i believe it is extremely important to include regional and local food products in school meals and to better educate young people about health and healthy eating. this helps to introduce young people to the traditional foods of their region from an early age and reduces the risk of obesity and other diseases.
written. ‒ due to the decline in the consumption of fruit, vegetables and dairy products among young people, a new programme of support for educational institutions has been adopted. a new system of distribution of products in schools has been proposed, with an emphasis on fruit, vegetables and milk. this programme is extremely important as it provides free healthy meals for children in lower grades of primary school and contributes to the fight against child poverty and to the education of children about healthy nutrition. however, it is important to ensure that the programme contributes sufficiently well to the development of small family farms, since products should be purchased from them in the first place, as they are the guarantee of healthy food. in croatia, public procurement procedures centralised at the state level have led to school suppliers becoming large chains rather than ppps. i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation on the fruit and vegetables, banana and milk supply programmes in educational establishments because i believe that children need to use healthy foods during their development and education and that the suppliers should be family farms.
written. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this regulation because the agreement reached has removed the historical criteria that prevented croatia from participating in the use of subsidies for healthy milk meals in schools. in addition to the abolition of the historical criteria for croatia, this regulation allows member states to include in their measures a wider range of agricultural products as well as other local, regional or national specialties such as honey, table olives and olive oil. this regulation also highlights the educational dimension of the programme for children aged 6 to 10 years who will learn more about the way the food they eat is produced and its connection with the daily work of the farmer. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the scheme is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. it is for all these reasons that i have supported this regulation and i hope that this support programme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments will bring all the benefits to children and farmers in croatia and in europe.
written. ‒ the support programme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments is of particular importance in the current context of declining consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products, especially among children, and increasing childhood obesity caused by consumer habits oriented towards processed products, often containing large amounts of added sugar, salt, fat or additives. the data are particularly worrying: one in five children in the czech republic is obese, and croatia is the seventh in the eu in terms of the number of obese children. these figures are alarming, since obesity can shorten life by up to ten years. it is very important to emphasize that obesity affects psychophysical health and for this reason i want to emphasize the importance of this unique program to promote the consumption of healthy and fresh foods to instill healthy eating habits in school children which is of utmost importance in the fight against obesity. for all of the above, i support this program of providing children with selected agricultural products in educational institutions that should contribute to promoting healthy habits, preventing disease and consuming healthy, fresh local products.
written. i welcome this report and support it fully. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states, including from the european parliament, the council and the commission. financial fraud and irregularities cause losses estimated at billions of euros annually. i would like to recall that the protection of financial interests and reasonable public spending are of key importance for citizens' trust in the union and should therefore be among the most important elements of its policy. i also express the hope that the recently adopted multiannual strategy of the european commission to combat fraud will contribute to a more effective protection of the eu's financial interests and to a reduction of the damage suffered by the european economy as a result of fraud and irregularities.
written. ‒ daily consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables is an important dietary habit. the aim of the proposal for a support programme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments, which i have readily supported, is to establish a supply chain for children who are starting their primary education and who need nutritionally rich food. the increasing prevalence of childhood obesity at that age has led to the development of fresh food delivery programmes in schools worldwide and the european union is providing financial resources through this regulation for the uninterrupted supply of fresh fruit and vegetables in all member states. the emphasis is also on the supply of local and regional products, which will have a positive impact on the operation of farms, orchards and gardens in each member state. there is also the education of children about the importance of healthy eating, which will involve local farmers. the programme will ensure that children are educated from an early age about healthy eating, by bringing them directly into contact with producers and thus with good practices in the distribution of fresh fruit, vegetables and milk.
written. ‒ in the current context of declining consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products, especially among children, and increasing childhood obesity caused by consumer habits oriented towards processed products often containing high amounts of added sugar, salt, fat or additives, union support for financing the supply of selected agricultural products to children in educational establishments should contribute more to promoting healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products. the analysis of the different policy options indicates that a single approach within a common legal and financial framework is more appropriate and effective in achieving the specific objectives pursued by the common agricultural policy through the school distribution scheme. this would allow member states to maximise the distribution effect within the unchanged budget and increase the efficiency of management, and i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ i support this report which prevents further liberalisation of the sector. the social and labour rights of workers need to be safeguarded to the greatest extent possible, and this report is leading in that direction. the report also calls for adequate training of workers to prevent accidents and thus safeguard workers' health, and the guarantee of the right to strike is also positively addressed by this report, thus protecting the dignity of workers in this sector.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports, as it seeks to achieve a more efficient and better connected functioning of the ten-t network by creating better conditions for the functioning of ports and adapting to changes in transport and logistics conditions. the commission considers that the aid is necessary to ensure that the port infrastructure is not affected by the negative effects of the aid. this will strengthen competition, create better jobs and working conditions for employees, create legal certainty for both investors and employees, and improve information for service users. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i agree that this document provides a good basis for further public debate and a final legislative proposal.
written. ‒ the european commission's proposal seeks to contribute to the goal of a more efficient, interconnected and functional ten-t by creating a framework that helps ports to cope with changes in traffic and logistics requirements. it is important to define a clear framework on state aid rules, minimum requirements, limitation of the number of service providers and social protection that will guarantee financial transparency i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports, as i believe that this proposal will improve the functionality of the ten-t.
written. ‒ i supported the postponement of the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports and the opening of negotiations with the council and the commission within the committee on transport and tourism. the commission has also concluded that the aid granted to the ports of the union is compatible with the internal market. the commission considers that the objective of the proposed regulation is to reduce the number of ships and to reduce the number of vessels in the port. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the ports of the union have been operating in a market economy. in today's global market, it is not easy to cope with the increasingly rapid technological advances and the increasing logistical demands, which is why i believe it is important to give all ports the framework within which they need to organise their business. it is therefore necessary to lay down clear rules on state aid in order to ensure a level playing field.
written. ‒ regulation of market access to port services and financial transparency of ports contributes to the long-term competitiveness of european industry on world markets, thereby increasing value added and employment in all coastal regions of the union. in order to respond to the challenges facing the maritime transport sector, such as the inefficiencies of a sustainable transport and logistics chain, i support the continuation of negotiations on the creation of a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports which should enhance the efficiency of maritime ports and the trans-european transport networks. the commission notes that the port services are not subject to the same conditions as the port services provided by the public authorities. this regulation also seeks to ensure full respect for labour and social rights by service providers and to enhance financial transparency.
written. i agree with the report by mr fleckenstein. i support the proposal for a european parliament regulation to achieve the improvement of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) by establishing a system to improve the transit of goods through seaports. this regulation would not only allow the modernisation of port infrastructure but also increase its usefulness and the member state would attract investors, which would mean financial viability and new jobs. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the port of rijeka was in a state of disrepair. one of the great advantages of this document is both financial transparency and the creation of legal certainty without which the ten-t network would not function.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal for a regulation as it primarily affects the financial transparency of seaports in southern europe, which includes croatian seaports. the commission notes that the ports of the republic of croatia have been subject to the same regulatory requirements as the ports of the republic of croatia. the report, although not fully compliant with the environmental criteria for establishing a framework for access to the market for port services, represents the third attempt to liberalise maritime port services, as two previous commission proposals were rejected by parliament. the liberalisation of maritime port services in europe is a strategically important decision requiring caution in the following areas: meeting the environmental criteria for loading in ports, considering the social aspects of the impact of the regulation, reducing long-distance navigation and comprehensively protecting workers' rights. the report describes well the need to improve the infrastructure of european seaports and simplify administrative and border formalities and how to reduce the costs and delays of the presentation of goods.
written. ‒ the vast majority of the union's maritime traffic passes through the seaports of the trans-european transport network. in order to achieve the objective of this regulation in a proportionate manner without imposing unnecessary burdens on other ports, this regulation should apply to ports of the trans-european transport network, each of which plays a significant role in the european transport system, either because it handles more than 0,1% of the total eu cargo or passengers or because it improves the regional accessibility of islands or peripheral areas. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'commercial port' and the definition of the concept of 'port' in the context of this regulation. the port managing body receiving public funds, when acting also as a service provider, should be required to keep separate accounts for the activities it carries out as a port managing body from those it carries out on the basis of market competition in order to ensure a level playing field, transparency in the allocation and use of public funds and to avoid market distortion. in any event, compliance with state aid rules must be ensured, and i supported the report.
written. ‒ i support this report which updates the existing statistical methodologies and simplifies its elements into one hicp regulation. the key is to correct the macroeconomic imbalances in the eu.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices and repealing regulation (ec) no 2494/95 because of the need to allow for an efficient assessment and measurement of price consistency within the union and to approach a concrete analysis of the performance of the monetary policy of the euro area with regard to the achievement of price stability. given that certain parameters change over time, it is necessary to adapt the legislation in this area in order to ensure, in line with current needs, the flexibility of the methodology, to improve the indices of owner-occupied housing and to ensure better integration of the housing price indices. i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices are used to assess national competitiveness in the context of the commission's macroeconomic imbalance procedure. the regulation applicable to the cpi dates from 1995. the european commission proposal for a regulation provides for a single legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hpis) at national, transnational and eu level. the hicp is important for assessing and measuring convergence in terms of eu price stability and euro area performance. the harmonised index of consumer prices at constant taxes (hicp-ct) is an important tool for analysing the causes of inflation and for forecasting the impact of future tax changes on inflation. i supported this report because i believe it is important to have a single legal framework.
written. ‒ i welcome this regulation as aiming to establish common frameworks for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised consumer price indices and property price indices at eu, national and sub-national level. it would highlight the importance of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hipcs) for assessing national competitiveness when we talk about the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. better, more regulated eu legislation is a fundamental prerequisite for smart regulation. i am pleased to see statistics as a priority area for the commission, given the simplification and improvement of the regulatory environment that is being announced. early provisional information on monthly hipcs in the form of estimates is essential for more effective monetary policy action. i welcome the pilot study as the basis for a constructive and relevant data-based approach. the commission would point out that it is crucial to find sufficient financial resources to set up pilot projects.
written. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices (hipcs) are designed to measure inflation in a harmonised way across member states and are used by the european central bank to assess price stability in the member states. i would like to stress the importance of harmonised consumer price indices in the event of macroeconomic imbalances, such as the 2008 financial crisis, the scale of which we can say is partly responsible for the lack of statistics. the quality and comparability of statistical data are public goods of fundamental importance for all union citizens, researchers and policy-makers and monetary policy-makers in the union. for this reason, i support the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices, which improves the existing statistical methodology by clarifying the scope of application, removing redundant pieces of legislation and clarifying provisions that have previously been misinterpreted. this new law improves the quality of the consumer price index, which is important for correcting macroeconomic imbalances in the eu.
written. ‒ i supported the establishment of a new framework on harmonised consumer price indices, as it brings order to the outdated additions and amendments to the regulations adopted in the past, 20 in the past 17 years to be exact. the hicp is an important tool for analysing the causes of inflation and forecasting the impact of future tax changes on inflation. this regulation has clarified its scope, omitting for example transactions between households, while the definitions of product categories and groups have been substantially clarified. it covers harmonised indices of flat rates, indices of owner-occupied dwellings and indices of property prices, both at union, national and sub-national level. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 10 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013.
written. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices (hipcs) are designed to measure inflation in a harmonised way across member states. the commission and the european central bank shall use the hipc in their assessment of price stability in the member states in accordance with article 140 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. harmonised indices of consumer prices (hipcs) are used to assess national competitiveness in the context of the commission's macroeconomic imbalance procedure. this regulation also establishes a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hipc, harmonised indices of consumer prices at constant tax rates, owner-occupied housing price index) and of property price indices at union, national and sub-national level, and i have therefore supported it.
written. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices are designed to measure inflation in a harmonised way across member states and are used to assess national competitiveness in the context of the commission's macroeconomic imbalance procedure. as the current example of a hicp regulation dates back to 1995, i accepted the new proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices and repealing the old regulation. i am of the opinion that the proposal contains a single legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised cpi and house price data at union, national and sub-national level. in addition, comparable and reliable consumer price indices, together with other sources, are valuable data for deflation of economic variables such as wages, rents, interest rates and national accounts data. these time series of estimated quantities show the development of a particular phenomenon in the economy without the influence of inflation and are key data for political and economic decision-making.
written. ‒ i support this report on the protection of the eu's financial interests, and i also take this opportunity to welcome the commission's commitment to publishing the eu's anti-corruption report twice a year and to call for the swift promotion of the law on the minimum level of protection for whistleblowers in the eu.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests the fight against fraud, as this is an important topic not only in the field of protecting the eu's financial interests but also as an element of the fight against corruption and for creating and maintaining citizens' trust in the eu institutions. eu money should be spent in a transparent way in accordance with the rules. the total amount of all irregularities reported for 2014 was approximately eur 3,24 billion. a clear distinction should be made between irregularities which may be considered as fraud and those which are the result of errors. in addition to the procedures in the process of spending union funds, it is good that fraud in the area of eu revenue generation, such as vat fraud, is increasingly being considered, where particular attention should be paid and a more effective system created to deal with cross-border fraud. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the budget, in particular on the budget for the period 2007-2013. it is necessary to improve transparency and to improve the reporting system and to improve the comparability of data. it is important to continue the process of creating national strategies to combat fraud. in addition to combating the consequences of fraud, prevention must be addressed.
‒ the committee on regional development called for the establishment of a database on irregularities in the field of cohesion policy, as this is the only way to analyse the frequency and patterns of irregularities and to identify quality prevention mechanisms. the committee also calls for increased education and awareness-raising about irregularities. i supported the 2014 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests, as it points to the importance of working on data transparency, and that without analysis and education, there will be no major progress in tackling irregularities and corruption.
written. ‒ the amount of all irregularities reported in 2014 of around eur 3,24 billion is very high. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the fraudulent practices on the financial situation of the union institutions and bodies, in particular on the financial situation of the member states and the union institutions, in the light of the findings of the court of auditors. i call on the commission to take urgent action to eliminate irregularities, both those considered and those not considered to be fraud. i welcome the proposals in the report calling for better reporting, better controls, more transparent public procurement, results-based budgeting and the prevention of tobacco smuggling and illicit trade in counterfeit goods. corruption is a major problem, particularly in the newer member states. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. there are also frequent situations where whistle-blowers are punished for their selfless contribution to society and for pointing out criminal acts. we need to change that, because only by legislating to protect whistleblowers can we actually reduce the level of corruption. i support this report because it points to the need for measures to address irregularities and protect the eu's financial interests, and asks the commission to react quickly.
written. ‒ the 2014 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud presents a clear and objective picture of the main challenges to the protection of financial interests. the irregularities identified in the report amount to approximately eur 3,24 billion. i am concerned that the overall financial impact of false and unlawful irregularities reported in 2014 increased by 36% compared to 2013, and the number of irregularities itself increased by 48%. on the other hand, i welcome the reduction of 5% in irregularities in 2014 under cohesion policy compared to 2013. i also welcome the commission's commitment to publishing the report twice a year, as this is key to promoting transparency and harmonisation.
written. ‒ the financial interests of the european union must be safeguarded for the benefit of all citizens. the number of reported financial irregularities in the form of fraud has been alarmingly high in recent years, especially in the area of eu funds. i supported the implementation of this report because it opens up new ways to improve reporting and control in the member states, to amend the eu staff regulations and to emphasise the importance of transparency of lobbying. the commission has also been asked to develop a corruption index to increase its scrutiny of countries at high risk of corruption and to submit an eu anti-corruption report twice a year. success has also been achieved in facilitating cooperation between the european anti-fraud office and its supervisory board, which has been limited so far. the report represents a major step forward in the fight against fraud and corruption in the member states of the union and points to the need to adopt additional regulations and directives that should reduce fraud and ensure smooth economic growth and development. the member states of the union depend on the fair distribution of eu funds and their successful implementation, and this report ensures that good practice continues.
written. ‒ member states and the commission share responsibility for the implementation of about 80% of the union budget, and member states are primarily responsible for collecting own resources, including in the form of vat and customs duties. reasonable public spending and the protection of the eu's financial interests should be key elements of an eu policy aimed at increasing citizens' trust by ensuring that their money is used correctly, efficiently and effectively. such sound financial management should be implemented by applying the best-effort approach to each euro. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has the responsibility to protect the financial interests of the union by investigating fraud, corruption and other illegal activities and its supervisory board was established to strengthen and guarantee the independence of olaf by regularly monitoring the implementation of its investigative role. i therefore welcome the adoption by the commission of a multiannual anti-fraud strategy to correct the significant discrepancies in the number of irregularities reported by each member state, and i supported the report.
written. ‒ i stress the need to combat fraud and actions detrimental to national budgets, especially in a time of economic recovery and fiscal consolidation. i would also like to point out that the detection and reporting of irregularities is still not uniform across member states and that the level of irregularities caused by non-compliance with public procurement rules remains high. but it's not just the lack of respect for rules and laws that's the problem. i think that countries need to find a good compromise between the need to generate revenue and the dangers that too high vat rates pose as a kind of incentive to move into a grey economy. that is why i abstained.
written. - thank you, mrs. mlinar, for this report. i believe that gender equality should be achieved through all the committees of the ep, not just through the committee on women's rights and gender equality (femm), and that is why i support the proposals for the gmas.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on gender mainstreaming in the european parliament because i believe that the gender dimension in the european parliament should be more visible in the content of the ep's policies, but also in the administration itself, i.e. in the decision-making process. i also support the inclusion of gender-sensitive elements in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, and the goal of gender balance at senior and middle management levels. equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles of european legislation and a necessary condition for achieving social cohesion, employment and growth. however, there are still some shortcomings and deficiencies within the other eu institutions and within parliament itself to achieve full gender equality.
written. ‒ equality between women and men is recognised by the eu as a fundamental right and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives. gender inequality persists in our society despite the fact that the law treats both women and men as equals. on the other hand, all the measures mentioned in the report have already been implemented and are part of the eu legal framework, which is why i voted against this report.
written. - i find this report extremely problematic for several reasons. first, it seeks to impose gender ideology and to completely obscure the natural differences between the sexes by redefining the concept of gender. the european commission points out that gender-sensitive policies have their origins in the treaty on the functioning of the eu, which clearly states that one of the fundamental principles of the european union is the achievement of equality between women and men. but we're used to this - the news is that this report is trying to give the women's rights committee some powers that are not theirs. the measures proposed are too drastic. they are directly asking for amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament and for one committee to be given authority over all other committees and thus over all the policies of the european union. this is contrary to the legal and democratic procedures and the rules of procedure of the european parliament. the commission has also proposed that the femm should be set up as a body to monitor the implementation of the femm directive. on the contrary, it will harm the very goal we are striving for. for all these reasons, i was unable to support the report on gender policy in the european parliament. it does not contribute to improving women's rights, but it does impose a burden on the work of the european parliament, increases bureaucracy and reduces transparency, which will also undermine citizens' trust in the european institutions.
written. ‒ gender-sensitive policy means including a gender perspective in all aspects of eu policy, i.e. in the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, in legal measures and in consumption programmes, in order to achieve equality between women and men. it is not an end in itself but a key means of achieving gender equality, always in combination with other concrete measures and policies aimed at promoting gender equality. since 1996, the commission has been committed to a two-pronged approach to achieving gender equality. this approach includes the integration of a gender perspective into all policies and the implementation of specific measures to eliminate, prevent or eliminate gender inequalities. since the ep adopted a resolution on gender equality in 2003, each parliamentary committee appoints one of its members as gender equality officer. however, in order to reduce the under-representation of women in key decision-making positions at political and administrative level, gender equality needs to be implemented equally at staff level. i therefore welcome the conclusions of the resolution and the emphasis on the need for gender-sensitive amendments, gender impact assessments and gender budgeting to include a gender perspective at all levels, in all areas and at all policy stages.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal for a regulation as a gender-sensitive policy is a means to achieve gender equality. the policy should cover the rights, perspectives and well-being of lgbtiq people and people of all gender identities. the regulation calls for the continuous development of the gender awareness policy network, from the committees to each member and their alternates individually, in order to improve cooperation and development of gender-sensitive policies. interinstitutional cooperation on this issue plays a major role as the involvement of more institutions would ensure the inclusion of gender policies in all phases of the policy cycle. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the implementation of the gender mainstreaming policy. regular training of parliament's staff is also an objective of this regulation, intended to cover staff in middle and senior management positions. the european parliament can demonstrate its role as an institution that acts on gender equality in decision-making through the coordinated work of both the clubs of members and the committees.
written. ‒ croatia is doing very well with the problem of the flow of refugees through its territory, but it is important to emphasise that women very rarely stay in hospitals even when their health is at risk. it is important to make migrants feel safe and to provide them with quality healthcare.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu because women asylum seekers have specific protection needs and different problems than men and therefore need not be treated as passive victims and inert recipients of aid. i believe that the european parliament should continue to be vocal and raise awareness of the needs of women refugees and asylum seekers. safe routes can certainly help to address this problem, prevent violence and abuse, and improve the conditions and condition of facilities, especially those for pregnant and breastfeeding women. i also believe that a common and coordinated approach by member states is needed to ensure safe environments for women seeking international protection and to combat all forms of discrimination.
written. ‒ in 2014, more than half of the refugees were women. in view of the increasing number of refugees coming to the eu, the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers needs to be taken into account. women are vulnerable during the refugee journey and are often victims of sexual abuse and/or trafficking. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and migration. i consider the report to be flawed because it excludes certain issues related to asylum seekers and touches on changes to the current asylum system that go beyond the scope of this type of report. for the above reasons, i did not support the report of my colleague mary honeyball.
written. ‒ it is true that refugee, migrant and child women are particularly vulnerable groups and therefore require special attention and access, and we must persistently combat the violence and exploitation faced by women on the migration route and ensure that they are adequately protected and cared for. however, we cannot do so by interfering with the regulation of the right to asylum and violating the principle of subsidiarity on which the eu is founded. this report is outside the scope of the committee that produced it and the eu, and i could not support it. i agree that women and children need to be given special care and access, that special attention should be paid to pregnant women and mothers who have given birth on their migration route, starting with adequate accommodation and medical care and ending with the prevention of trafficking in human beings to which women and children are particularly exposed, but i believe that the measures proposed in this report are simply not appropriate and many of them are totally unacceptable and contrary to fundamental rights. i reiterate that the eu must do everything in its power to help tackle the very source that has led to this crisis, because our ultimate goal must be peace in the troubled areas, the return of people to their homes and the facilitation of peaceful coexistence.
written. ‒ from the beginning of 2015 to november of the same year, some 900 000 people arrived on european shores via the mediterranean, of which women and children account for approximately 38% of the total. the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) reported that as of january 2016, women and children accounted for 55% of people coming to greece seeking asylum in the european union. in general, women represent on average one third of asylum seekers and require special protection that takes into account the fact that they have different problems than men and that their rights are compromised when their legal status depends on a spouse, which is why it is necessary to ensure that gender is taken into account in the implementation of all asylum policies and procedures, including in the assessment of asylum applications, and that they are dealt with on an individual basis. refugee women are often subject to multiple discrimination and are most vulnerable to sexual violence and trafficking. for this reason, i welcome this important resolution calling for a series of measures to ensure that the needs of women refugees are met so that their already vulnerable situation is not further aggravated upon arrival at the reception centre and in the asylum procedure itself.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
mr. president, the fragile truce we are witnessing in syria is surely better than war, and it should be maintained. and so it's good that you're involved in this process, esteemed high commissioner, but it's also good that both the united states and russia have found a solution. however, the future cannot be in their hands. the future must be in the hands of the syrians and we must make it clear that syria belongs to them and not to anyone else. and we need to be clear that our enemies are primarily daesh and the terrorist groups that have shown how much they are willing to commit crimes in this world. everything else, in my deepest conviction, should be left to the syrians. if we want to establish an international criminal court for war crimes in syria, let's do it, because that too can be the legal way to resolve the situation. but in any case, let's leave syria to the people who live there.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, thank you so much for accepting my blue card. you mentioned the western balkans route and said it must not be closed. i am of the opinion, as you are, that the western balkans route must be opened. however, do you agree with me that we need to know who is going through that western-balkan route? and it is certain that greece cannot establish the dublin regulation because the dublin regulation has long since failed, but we must know, i am convinced, who is coming to europe. do you agree with me?
madam president, i thank the honourable vice-president of the commission, mr timmermans, for the review of the implementation of the european agenda on migration, during which some 800 000 people have entered the eu in the last ten months, of whom 120 000 this year. our key task is to try to deal with the uncontrolled, illegal influx of people fleeing for their lives, to organize that reception in a solidarity, humane and just way. i therefore welcome your initiative to review the dublin regulation, to protect the schengen acquis and to make every effort to engage in dialogue with turkey, as was done yesterday, to prevent smugglers from illegally transporting people across the aegean sea and causing tragedies, while at the same time helping greece and in particular this disastrous situation on the macedonian-greek border which is later having consequences for the entire so-called eastern mediterranean and balkan route.
mr president, i welcome the rapporteur's recommendations because i share his concern about the failure to assess the impact of legislation on smes. these companies are the backbone of the european economy and employ more than 80% of the private sector workforce, so any responsible legislator would have to be guided by their interests, among other things. while this house proposes to assess the impact of legislation on gender equality, we give too little weight to small and medium-sized private companies that employ members of both sexes and thus ensure at least partial equality in practice. when it comes to laws and other acts, quality is far more important than quantity. i therefore hope that we will finally see a comprehensive regulatory guillotine that will remove redundant rules and procedures at both european and national level, and ensure that our companies benefit further from the single market and employ even more people.
written. between 2010 and 2014, the number of posted workers increased by as much as 45%, with 1.9 million european workers posted to other member states in 2014. it is therefore important to provide for new instruments to improve administrative cooperation between national authorities responsible for referrals. the european commission has thus presented a reform of the posting of workers directive in the framework of the provision of services, which aims to create a more connected and fairer european labour market, and which will complement the directive implementing the posting of workers directive of 2014. in order to achieve such a labour market, it is necessary to ensure the principle of equal pay for equal work and easier recruitment of workers in a spirit of fair competition, equal conditions of work and respect for workers' rights. the revision of the rules on posting of workers would change the remuneration of posted workers, the rules on persons working through temporary employment agencies and long-term posting, and would increase worker protection, transparency and legal certainty.
mr president, i can say that the news has been positively received in the media these days when we heard that the balkan route is slowly closing because my country croatia is on that route. however, we must be aware that this is a major humanitarian disaster and that we have nothing to look forward to at this time. the appeal of donald tusk to refugees or those about to become refugees was also welcomed: do not come to the european union, do not trust criminals, do not trust smugglers. however, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, this is about men, women and children, not about numbers. so it's time to say goodbye to this agreement, which i wouldn't call trade, but this agreement has yet to be, at the next summit and at the next summits, concretized, and i hope that we will finally succeed in that. but also, this agreement should not be considered a blank check because it is not a blank check, given what we know is happening in turkey. so we should separate the negotiations for turkey and the accession to the european union from this refugee crisis because if we don't separate that then we will be accepting all the bad things that are happening in turkey, and we are talking about the endangerment of freedoms, especially media freedoms. that's something we have to appeal to here today and i believe that will be our condition to turkey. i agree that we should legalize migration in such a way that an additional 3 billion, so we are talking about 6 billion of funds from all european countries, are given to help turkey, to help all refugees or those who are going to become refugees. i think that's the only thing that's regular and legal, everything else would be bad. so we have to go back to the external borders of the union, we have to strengthen controls, and in that i fully support what the heads of state have done and i hope we are moving in that direction, that we finally have a concrete solution. anything else would be bad. and also, when it comes to greece, i think we should help greece because greece cannot become a cage. we have to help her solve the problems that have happened to her because of her geopolitical or geographical position.
mr. president, after six years of war, the war in syria has become the largest humanitarian crisis since world war ii. similarly, the drama in the middle east has caused very serious blockages in the functioning of the eu. it is good that the talks of all those involved have finally become very concrete, because they contain the most ambitious plan to deal with the migration crisis so far. i welcome some of its elements, particularly the prevention of the abuse of human suffering and human trafficking. however, member states and aspiring members should not manipulate the humanitarian disaster for their own interests. in this context, we must look at the demands of turkey, where the human rights situation is deteriorating daily and dramatically. regardless of the wording in the council conclusions, as of today, the so-called balkan route is officially closed, but people are still coming and staying blocked at the macedonian-greek border. the countries on the external borders remain under great pressure. plans to rescue schengen must not ignore the non-schengen members, but are already literally barbed wire from the rest of the eu.
mr. president, since the first day of this migrant crisis, i have been saying that the problem must be addressed at its source - in syria and iraq - and that refugees must be taken care of in consultation with international partners in the region. this current deal with turkey would be a step in the right direction if it were a partner that could be trusted at this point. turkey cannot be denied credit for taking in the huge numbers of syrian refugees, but it is quite clear that ankara has been using this crisis for political blackmail and for its own geopolitical interests for some time. the problems europe is experiencing with the migrant crisis are not negligible and will become more pronounced. so we can't expect the americans and the russians to be as motivated to solve this problem as we are. i think it's time for european countries to show that they can coordinate to solve this problem and take a leadership role in solving the crisis in the middle east.
mr. president, (the beginning of the speech is not heard)...this agreement as the beginning of solving a global problem. better a half-deal than the anarchy we've witnessed in the last months and years. we know what happened on the balkan route, we saw how someone behaved on that balkan route. we've seen that even some countries that are not members of the european union, specifically macedonia and serbia, have done more than the members of the european union. we've seen some countries put up wire fences. i urge you to influence the wire fences to finally be removed if the balkan route is now under control, because it is a disgrace for what we have all been experiencing these last months, especially the border line between the republic of croatia and the republic of slovenia. that wire needs to be removed now. i would like to emphasize the dramatic situation on the greek-macedonian border. we need to help greece, we need to help macedonia.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels because i believe that the european union has an obligation to provide its citizens with easy access to legal acts. the codification is therefore aimed at simplification which does not change the substance of the acts. in this context, i support the interinstitutional agreement which allows for an accelerated procedure for the rapid adoption of codified acts and the commitment of the commission staff to codify acts after a maximum of ten amendments.
the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the implementation of this regulation. it was agreed to set up an advisory working group to investigate and give its opinion on the proposal. after discussion, the advisory working party unanimously concluded that the proposal merely codifies the existing text without changing its substance, and i therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ council directive 1999/32/ec has been substantially amended several times and, following an agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission, a codification procedure has been required. the basic version of the directive itself seeks to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thus to reduce the harmful effects of such emissions on humans and the environment. the directive sets maximum permitted sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel oil used in the union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of substances which are subject to the restriction of the sulphur content of heavy fuel oil. the consolidated directive should, after the implementation of the codification, be in line with the revised appendix vi to the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships as amended by the protocol of 1978 and containing provisions for the prevention of air pollution from ships. the amended annex vi to the protocol entered into force on 1 july 2010, so that in order to provide greater legal certainty to the obligors in the implementation of the obligations of the convention in the territory of the union, i support this codification.
written. ‒ the european commission directive 1999/32 on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels aims to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain liquid fuels, thereby reducing the harmful impact of such emissions on humans and the environment. those reductions in sulphur dioxide emissions will be achieved by imposing a limit on the sulphur content of the combustion of certain liquid fuels, which creates a condition for their use in the territory of the member states. sulphur dioxide emissions are one of the causes of acidification and particulate matter in the european union, they cause acid rain that pollutes forests, rivers, lakes and other natural resources, and they are one of the factors causing damage to ecosystems, biodiversity and human health. for this reason, i support the consolidation text of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels.
written. i support the report by mrs ferrara. the european union's environmental policy is designed to achieve a satisfactory level of air quality, primarily to safeguard the health of its citizens. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry is able to benefit from the exemption from the anti-dumping duty imposed by implementing regulation (eu) no 1238/2013 on imports of sulphur-containing products originating in the prc. delaying the reduction of sulphur in fuel will result in ships becoming more polluting than all land-based sources combined. the proposal for a directive promotes environmental awareness and i consider it necessary to reduce the percentage of sulphur in liquid fuels and to encourage the use of other renewable energy sources, such as electricity. despite all efforts to change the situation, a significant proportion of the eu population lives in areas where air quality standards are still exceeded and pollution is at high levels, particularly harmful to residents with respiratory problems. although methods to reduce sulphur emissions will require significant financial expenditure, they will also have a significant impact on the environment and human health.
written. ‒ i supported this regulation as it represents a step forward in reducing the harmful effects of sulphur dioxide on the environment. any reduction in sulfur in the atmosphere also reduces its harmful effects on ecosystems, crop production, forest growth, and acid rain. today, there is technology to enable this innovation, and studies have shown that the benefits of reducing sulphur dioxide in certain liquid fuels, primarily used by ships, will outweigh the projected costs to industry. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of vessels that are subject to the inspection, the number of vessels that are subject to the inspection, the number of vessels that are subject to the inspection and the number of vessels that are subject to the inspection. in addition to controls, it is necessary to develop cost-benefit analyses of maritime transport and to promote the development of maritime transport versus land transport, as land transport in any case creates more congestion and is contrary to the union's climate change objectives.
written. ‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, the report of the committee on legal affairs and, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes, i have supported the report.
written. ‒ this report concerns the codification of the rules in the already existing commission regulation 1999/32/ec of 26 april 1999 relating to the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels, and the supplementing of regulation 93/12/eec. in the preamble to the codified version of the regulation, the point numbered 30 should be inserted between points 39 and 40. as a consequence, the points numbered between 31 and 39 should be renumbered 30 to 38 and the previous point 30 renumbered 39. the text of article 20 should be replaced by the following: 'the regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the official journal of the european union.' this proposal is a simple codification of the regulation without changing its substance. i support this proposal because i believe that it will make the content of the regulation clearer and thus allow for a better and more concrete application of the regulation.
written. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that this proposal will contribute to the protection of the environment and people. sulfur has been shown to be present in small amounts in petroleum and is the main source of sulfur dioxide emissions, which is one of the main causes of acid rain and air pollution. in addition to the direct impact on ambient air quality, the reduction of sulphur content is perhaps even more important because highly developed and sophisticated engine exhaust aftertreatment systems can be successfully applied in conjunction with the use of low-sulphur or virtually sulphur-free motor fuels. i come from a country that is extremely rich in flora and fauna and for which it is important that such proposals are adopted. this will ensure better living conditions for our descendants and preserve the diversity of biological life as well as the beauty of the environment.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on the avoidance of trade diversion in certain key medicinal products within the european union, as it adopts a first reading position and is only a proposal for codification without any substantive changes. the consolidated acts do not change their content, but are simplified and made clearer and more accessible to citizens. this reduces the need for research to find out what rules are in force and in this context i also support the recommendations of the advisory groups of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission which have contributed to making eu law clearer and more transparent.
written. ‒ the proposal for a european parliament and council resolution addresses price differences in certain key medicines between developed and poorest countries. the poorest countries need to be provided with access to primary pharmaceutical products at reduced prices but abuse of this system must be prevented. i supported the motion for a resolution because it clearly defines the instruments and methods for controlling the trade in medicines in order to help the poorest, but also to prevent fraud on the eu market.
‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the avoidance of trade diversion in certain key medicinal products within the european union consists only of a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. the adjustment of prices of certain key medicines in the markets of developed countries and the poorest developing countries is necessary to ensure that the poorest countries are supplied with basic pharmaceutical products at more favourable reduced prices. therefore, the abnormally low prices cannot be taken as a benchmark for paying the same products at the same prices in developed countries. the proposed codified regulation aims at preventing the import of products at below-market, harmonised prices into the european union. exceptions are only possible in exceptional circumstances. i welcome the regulation taking into account the socioeconomic situation of the poorest developing countries and giving priority to the availability of medicines to the most vulnerable groups in society.
written. ‒ providing medicines to the poor and developing countries is one of the key objectives in the fight against diseases that threaten these countries. to achieve this, the european commission has consistently advocated a policy of sustainable and low prices for medicines, combined with market segmentation between rich and poor countries. the advantage of such a policy is that it encourages manufacturers to distribute certain key medicines to target countries at the lowest possible price, while compensating for the higher prices charged in developed countries (oecd) for the costs of research and development. this approach promotes the sustainability of stocks and the continued distribution of medicines that help to eliminate the diseases that dominate these areas: hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria. for this reason, i support the codification of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 on the avoidance of trade diversion in certain key medicinal products within the european union, as these diseases represent the greatest challenge to public health and the main obstacle to the development of these countries.
written. i fully support the report by mrs ferrara. africa is not only a symbol of extreme poverty but also of high mortality rates from communicable diseases such as aids, malaria, and tuberculosis. the union is committed to the prevention of the spread of communicable diseases and to the fight against them, including through the fight against the spread of diseases, and to the prevention of the spread of diseases, including through the fight against the spread of diseases. aids mortality could be reduced by the use of antiretroviral therapy, but the necessary drugs are either unavailable or too expensive. price segmentation is the only fair solution to provide aid to the people of the african continent. i support the proposal for a regulation because it introduces the obligation to differentiate prices, which means that the price would be determined according to the wealth of the country in which the medicine is distributed. no one is at a loss because the people receive the drugs that keep them alive, the drugs have to be produced continuously, and the lack of money is compensated for by the higher cost of the same drugs in richer countries. on the other hand, there is the danger of abuse and the creation of a parallel market in which drugs intended for less developed countries are sold at higher prices in developed countries. this regulation prevents the import of differentiated pricing products by maintaining a list of medicinal products, countries and a formula for product identification.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, report of the committee on legal affairs (a8-0038/2016), and as the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considered that the proposal in question was limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes, i supported the report.
written. ‒ this report deals with the codification of commission regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 on the prevention of the diversion of trade in certain essential medicinal products into the european union. this proposal is a simple codification of the regulation without changing its substance. i support this proposal because i believe that it will make the content of the regulation clearer and thus allow for a better and more concrete application of the regulation.
written. ‒ i supported this report because i believe it contributes to protecting the right to health of every human being. i believe that economic differences between different countries should not be an obstacle to the availability of quality and affordable medicines and that citizens of countries with a lower economic standard, or a lower level of development, should not be disadvantaged in terms of their access to them. i believe that every human being has the right to access basic medicines, but it is often the case that less developed countries do not have local production and are highly dependent on imports.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in order to prevent tax fraud and tax evasion and to promote international tax cooperation. the eu and andorra shall cooperate in the exchange of information on financial accounts, including on the exchange of information on the income and balance of accounts and the proceeds of the sale of financial assets. andorra thus applies rules that are equivalent to the eu legal framework, and i therefore support this report.
the european union and andorra signed an agreement on 12 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of financial information with a view to enhancing international cooperation. the agreement is a step towards introducing tougher measures against tax fraud and evasion. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing the format and content of the information to be exchanged. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the taxable profit of the company is based on the profit or loss of the company. i supported the agreement between the european community and andorra because it is in line with the oecd provisions. the data will not only relate to income, such as interest rate and dividends, but also to account balances and income from the sale of financial assets.
written. ‒ i support this agreement because transparency in the tax system and banking is in the interest of the member states. the eu has upgraded its agreement with andorra, in line with international developments, to ensure that tax measures are applied in that country, as in the european union. for years andorra has been beyond the reach of european and international tax authorities, but things are changing a lot and the tax system is becoming more and more in line with international tax laws. it is important that andorra's tax policy is open and transparent so that the relevant institutions can track down tax evaders which is very important in this time of recession.
the european union and andorra signed an agreement on 12 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which is intended to help and improve international tax cooperation. the agreement represents an important step in the measures currently taken to stop tax fraud. the new agreement will enable tax administrations in the member states and andorra to: correctly and unambiguously identify taxpayers; strengthen tax laws in cross-border situations; assess the risk of tax avoidance; avoid unnecessary investigations. in view of the above, i welcome and support this agreement and its entry into force on 1 january 2017.
written. i support the report by my colleague miguel vigas. i agree with the commission's proposal to add to the savings agreement of 3 june 2003 concluded with andorra an amending protocol to introduce automatic exchange of information and to ensure greater tax transparency and information flows between the european union and andorra. the european union as a whole is facing a major problem of tax fraud and tax evasion and this information exchange system facilitates the identification by tax authorities of the real beneficiaries of savings interest received in a country other than the country of residence. in order to prevent tax fraud at international level, it is necessary to establish an automatic exchange of information on which the oecd global standard would be based.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the european union and andorra signed on 12 february 2016 an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information to promote international tax cooperation and the enforcement of tax obligations at international level. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and is an upgrade of the 2004 agreement, which guarantees that andorra applies measures equivalent to those in the eu directive on taxation of savings income on interest. the european union and andorra shall cooperate with each other in the exchange of information on the financial accounts held by the citizens of the other party in accordance with the provisions of the agreement. the aim is to tackle situations where taxpayers want to conceal capital representing income or assets that have not been taxed, and therefore supported the report itself.
written. ‒ in order to enhance international cooperation and compliance, the european union and the principality of andorra signed on 12 february 2016 an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the contract is an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the application of this article. this agreement will also help andorra, which has recently introduced changes to its tax system such as taxing the personal income of citizens of the principality. the purpose of this treaty is to enable the resolution of situations of misconduct in which a taxable person seeks to conceal capital, income or assets which have not been taxed in another country. i support this treaty because it represents a major step forward in the fight against tax fraud by allowing for the immediate exchange of account information held by eu citizens in andorra and vice versa. the agreement will allow for the proper and unambiguous identification of taxpayers, the assessment of the likelihood of tax evasion and the enforcement of tax laws in cross-border situations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra on the taxation of savings income on interest, as i consider it to be an upgrade of the 2004 agreement and an important step in the fight against tax fraud and evasion. the agreement will ensure that the financial accounting system of andorra is in compliance with the requirements of the financial accounting standards board (fasb) and the financial supervisory oversight and audit authority (fsa) as set out in the annex to this agreement. i am of the opinion that this agreement will address situations where taxpayers seek to conceal capital representing income or assets not taxed. i also believe that the taxpayers involved will be identified precisely and unequivocally, the likelihood of tax evasion will be assessed and unnecessary further investigations will be avoided.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a decision on the proposal to appoint an executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) because mr fausto parente has demonstrated the necessary management and leadership skills, as well as the capacity and expertise in financial supervision and regulation. his previous extensive national and international experience certainly influenced the selection process, which resulted in mr parente being appointed as executive director for a five-year term. i also consider that parliament's consent is important for eiopa to continue its regular work and therefore i support this report.
the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) supervisory board has proposed the appointment of an executive director on 3 february 2016, as the term of office of the current executive director expires on 31 march 2016. the commission notes that the new shareholders were not able to provide the capital needed to finance the new company. on 23 february 2016, the economic and monetary policy committee (econ) held a hearing with mr fausto parente, at which he made his views known and answered questions from members of the committee. on the basis of the hearing, econ reached a positive decision, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i supported the election of faust parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. eiopa shall be responsible for the effective management of the financial system, including the management of the financial system, the management of the financial system and the supervision of the financial markets. in addition to a number of activities such as monitoring and identifying trends, potential risks and vulnerabilities arising from the micro-fit level, the main objectives of eiopa are to improve consumer protection, restore confidence in the financial system, ensure a high, effective and consistent level of regulation and supervision, taking into account the different interests of all member states and the different nature of financial institutions. the objectives are to improve the harmonisation and consistent application of rules for financial institutions and markets across the european union, to strengthen the oversight of cross-border groups and to promote a coordinated eu response to irregularities. i wish mr faust parente much success in this responsible task.
written. ‒ the executive director of eiopa is the person who is in charge of the day-to-day management of eiopa and the implementation of the annual and multiannual work programme on a full-time basis. the term of office of the executive director shall be five years and may be renewed once. the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa expires on 31 march 2016, and the committee of supervisors of eiopa, following an open selection procedure, proposed on 28 january 2016 that fausto parente be appointed as executive director. in its opening statement and in its replies to the questions of the members of the committee, fausto parente highlighted its managerial and management experience, as well as its expertise and capacity in financial supervision and regulation. on the basis of mr parente's distinguished career in supervisory regulation and policy at national and international level, i support his appointment as the new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
written. i accept and fully support the report of mr gualtieri on the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of eiopa. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the internal market and to take into account the impact of the amendments on the internal market. the protection of insured persons, as well as of beneficiaries of the pension scheme at european level, provided by eiopa's supervisory authorities in the member states is of great importance in order to avoid cases of breaches of the law by national authorities to the detriment of the interests of citizens. i am convinced that the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of eiopa is a good decision and that this supervisory body, under the leadership of mr parente, who already has a successful career in supervisory regulatory bodies both at international and national level, will continue to effectively protect the interests of european insurers and pension beneficiaries.
written. the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa shall expire on 31 march 2016. on 28 january 2016, following an open selection procedure, the board of supervisors of eiopa proposed that fausto parente be appointed as executive director for a term of five years in accordance with article 51 (2) and (3) of the regulation. on 23 february 2016, the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr fausto parente, at which he made an introductory statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee, and therefore supported the appointment.
‒ the committee of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) has proposed the appointment of the executive director of eiopa for a five-year term of office, and the committee also proposed in january this year, following an open selection procedure, that fausto parente be appointed as executive director for a five-year term of office. i support the report by mr gualtieri on the proposal for the appointment of an executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) as i consider that mr fausto parente is an ideal candidate for the post of executive director of eiopa.
‒ the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing less than a month ago of fausto parente, the italian candidate for executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), at which he gave a presentation and answered questions from the committee members. in the light of the fact that he is a competent person with experience in supervision at national level, acquired as head of the supervisory department of the italian supervisory authority (ivass) and actively involved in the work of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) until now, i supported the report on his appointment as the new executive director of eiopa. in this, as in other appointments of the heads of the european institutions, the only criteria to be followed are competence and ability, because this is the only way for the institutions of the european union to do their job correctly and fairly, for the benefit of all citizens.
written. ‒ i support this report which aims to strengthen the safety of children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, as a particularly vulnerable group. the report shall, inter alia, ensure that a suspect child is always provided with a lawyer without having to request one or apply for legal aid. strong minimum standards at eu level will help to properly protect a child suspected of criminal offences at eu level.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings because i am deeply convinced that the problem needs to be approached with particular caution when it comes to children. i fully support the intention to set minimum standards to guarantee the rights of children during proceedings. first, it is necessary to provide them with a lawyer, as well as free legal aid, to allow them to attend proceedings, and so on. there are wide disparities in the treatment of children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings across the union. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
written. ‒ according to the latest commission figures, over one million children in the eu are currently suspected or accused of criminal offences. the treatment of children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings varies widely between member states. the commission should also be able to provide information on the use of the european union's criminal law instruments in criminal matters, including the european union's criminal law instruments, and on the use of the european union's criminal law instruments. it is important to establish a single set of rules for all member states to guarantee respect for the rights of children and minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i am concerned about the commission's estimates that more than one million children in europe are involved in criminal proceedings each year, or 12% of the total. as a human rights advocate, i want to draw attention to the inadequate protection of minors' rights, which is also confirmed by eu research. in order to reduce these disastrous numbers, i would like to emphasize the important role of the family in the upbringing and formation of children as explicitly stated in the convention on the rights of the child. we should be focused on addressing the cause, not the effect. the report introduces improvements in terms of better protection of minors in terms of the right to free legal aid as well as the right to a lawyer. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. in the light of all this, i welcome the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings.
written. ‒ more than 1 million children in the eu are involved in criminal proceedings every year, representing 12% of all criminal proceedings. there are wide differences between member states in the way children are treated in criminal proceedings. it is worrying that children's rights are not sufficiently protected at different stages of criminal proceedings in the eu and that the european court of justice has had to intervene countless times with judgments against member states. the court of justice has also established a system of criminal proceedings against persons who have committed serious offences against the union. special training for judges and lawyers who come into contact with children in their work is compulsory in only 12 member states. in some member states, there is no legal obligation for lawyers to assist children, while in other countries this right is exercisable only in court but not in police stations, or is a matter for the discretion of the court. as a result, a significant number of children in the eu do not enjoy the fundamental right to the assistance of a lawyer. for this reason, i strongly support this directive which creates minimum standards at eu level to properly protect child suspects in criminal proceedings across the union.
written. i welcome this report and support it fully. i am convinced that children and young people need better regulated protection and guarantees in criminal proceedings. all member states of the european union are signatories to a number of international instruments on the rights of the child, including the united nations convention on the rights of the child, and as such should guarantee all rights to children of a suspect or accused person in criminal proceedings. however, practice often shows that many of them do not offer sufficient guarantees when it comes to protecting the rights of suspected or accused minors. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases in which the court of justice has jurisdiction in relation to the rights of the child. i therefore hope that this report will also contribute to improving legislation in the area of the protection of minors in criminal proceedings throughout the union.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal for a directive which will ensure that children of a suspect or accused person in criminal proceedings throughout the member states of the union are guaranteed a fair trial. the proposal builds on the commission's long-term plan for the empowerment of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, as well as the 2011 plan on the rights of the child. it is necessary to set common minimum standards at union level for the rights of children in such proceedings, as currently only 6 member states have specialised sections dealing with children in criminal proceedings, while in the other member states children are tried in ordinary courts. the court of justice has also established that the principle of proportionality applies to all actions for damages. the proposed directive considers any person under 18 years of age to be a child and ensures that any child in those procedures must be informed of his or her rights, as well as the child's parents/guardians. it also sets out criteria for the protection of personal data as well as the right to counsel, individual assessment, medical examination.
written. ‒ although member states are parties to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the united nations convention on the rights of the child, experience has shown that this alone does not always ensure a sufficient degree of trust in the criminal justice systems of other member states. member states should therefore ensure that judicial and law enforcement authorities and prison staff dealing with cases involving children are experts in the field of criminal proceedings involving children. they should receive appropriate training on children's legal rights, appropriate interview techniques, child psychology, child-friendly language communication and pedagogical skills. that's why i endorsed the report.
‒ in december 2015, coreper (the committee of permanent representatives) approved the compromise text agreed with the european parliament on the directive on the protection of the rights of children in criminal proceedings. the purpose of the directive is to provide protection for children, that is to say persons under the age of eighteen who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, and it will apply to children who are suspects or accused persons until the proceedings are closed. the commission estimates that more than one million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the european union every year, and that there are too many differences between the treatment of children in criminal proceedings in the member states, which means that in some member states the rights of children who are suspects or accused are not guaranteed at every stage of the criminal proceedings. i support the report by mrs chinnici on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. it is important that member states ensure that the children of a suspect or accused person in criminal proceedings have access to a lawyer, have the right to an individual assessment to determine whether there are special needs or conditions of the child, the right to a medical examination, the right to an audio-visual recording of the examination and that they are provided with special protection measures during deprivation of liberty, in particular when it comes to detention.
written. ‒ although member states are signatories to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the united nations convention on the rights of the child, experience has shown that these facts alone do not always ensure a sufficient degree of trust in the criminal justice systems of other member states. i therefore supported the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, as the purpose of the directive is to ensure a procedure for the protection of the rights of children, that is, persons under the age of 18 who are suspected or accused of having committed criminal offences in a member state of the european union. i believe that this directive will provide specific measures to protect children during deprivation of liberty, in particular during detention, to ensure their right to a medical examination and to ensure their assistance by a lawyer at every stage of the proceedings.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget, part iii. - commission because i believe that the budget for the next year should be flexible and in line with the union's policies in order to overcome the financial and migration crisis and to reduce its negative consequences. geopolitical tensions at the eu's external borders, as well as at its internal ones, certainly pose a major challenge for which the union and its member states must be prepared. however, it is also essential that the 2017 budget is able to stimulate investment, both public and private, to strengthen the economy, and that it is clearly targeted at young people in terms of creating new jobs and improving the competitiveness of european smes. in addition, i believe that the budgetary plan should take account of economic forecasts and be consistent with the european semester for the coordination of economic policies with a view to creating a strong and efficient budget, and i therefore support this report.
‒ the european parliament's resolution on the general budgetary guidelines is the starting point of the annual budgetary procedure for parliament. the report highlights parliament's political and economic priorities for the year ahead, which are to stimulate investment to achieve growth, competitiveness, job creation, but also to address current challenges such as the refugee crisis. the report highlights that the budget has proved to be an essential element in addressing the economic crisis and has managed to respond to needs that were not addressed during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. i supported the report on the 2017 budgetary guidelines - part iii. as i consider it important that the guidelines cover parliament's priorities.
‒ agriculture is a significant and strategically important sector of activity for every country in the world. if food production is threatened, especially in times of the pronounced effects of climate change that we are witnessing almost daily, there is a great danger to the food security of the citizens of the european union. the russian food embargo has deepened the crisis in the agricultural sector that has been going on for the past few years. since the budget should be structured in such a way as to encourage growth and jobs, i believe that investing in agriculture is investing in one's own future, and preserving every job of a small local producer is a priority. i particularly support the fact that the union recognises the importance of school milk and fruit programmes, as it is an exceptional way of promoting healthier eating habits, but also of connecting consumers with local food producers. while the russian embargo is driving down the price of fruits and vegetables, this program is a great incentive for farmers, as well as consumers, to adopt healthy habits. by bringing the agricultural production methods closer to school-age children, they connect with local producers and learn about the values of work and are encouraged to get involved in local activities.
written. ‒ the 2017 budget lays the foundations for economic growth and job creation in the context of a fragile economic recovery that is threatened by the situation in emerging global markets and current geopolitical tensions. i welcome the report on the guidelines and identified priorities of the european parliament in the eu budget for 2017: the emphasis on the need to address crises, migration and refugee crises; the importance and role of the european fund for strategic investments; measures for economic growth; allocations under the youth employment initiative; guarantees for children; climate change and the implementation of the refugee instrument in turkey. the guidelines indicate that the european parliament is ready to mobilise all the means at its disposal to deal properly with the refugee and economic crisis.
written. i welcome this report and support it fully. among the guidelines for the eu budget for the coming year, i would particularly like to stress the need for the union to provide more decisive support to the eastern partnership countries with which the association agreement has been signed, which is primarily conditioned by the sensitive geopolitical situation in that part of europe. such an approach is needed to ensure that the eastern partnership countries continue to successfully implement the reforms they have initiated and to deepen their relations with the union. in addition, i particularly welcome the guidelines in the report which draw attention to external and internal challenges to european security that will affect the union budget for 2017. these security challenges are closely linked to the terrorist threats facing the union. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the 2017 budget should lay the foundations for economic growth and job creation in the context of a fragile economic recovery threatened by the situation in emerging global markets and current geopolitical tensions, and will be affected by the evolution of the migration and refugee crisis. the union budget has already proven to be a key instrument for addressing the current crisis and responding to challenges that were not necessarily foreseen during the 2014-2020 mff negotiations, such as the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the migration and refugee crisis and geopolitical tensions in europe's neighbourhood, which are the cause of a number of serious challenges and emergencies, while the pace of economic recovery and investment in the eu is below potential and an investment gap persists. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the internal market and the functioning of the internal market, in particular by taking into account the impact of the new rules on the internal market and the functioning of the internal market. i call for a stronger synergy between the union-related aspect of the european semester for economic policy coordination and the union budget, which is also the basis for the stability of the euro area.
written. ‒ the 2017 budget should lay a solid foundation for job creation and economic growth in the context of a fragile economic recovery undermined by the emerging global market situation and current geopolitical tensions. the 2017 budget will also be affected by the evolution of the migration and refugee crisis, and it should be borne in mind that the balance between internal demand and external trade makes the european union somewhat economically dependent on global developments. the budget will be affected by internal and external security challenges, which may also take the form of terrorist threats or extremism. the union budget is already a proven tool to address the current crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i support this report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget as i believe that the guidelines contained therein are well developed and will have a positive outcome that will contribute to economic growth as well as to addressing the current crises.
written. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget. in particular, although this report focuses on the european union budget to address the migrant and refugee crisis, high youth unemployment and slow economic growth, i do not consider that a significant increase in the union budget is necessary to effectively implement european union policies to address this crisis. i believe that the 2017 budget should lay the foundations for economic growth and job creation in the context of a fragile economic recovery that is threatened by the situation in world markets and the current geopolitical situation. i would like to stress once again that an increase in the eu budget is unnecessary and that the situation can be remedied by redistributing existing resources.
written. ‒ i support this report on the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making which will allow for better application of eu law, while respecting agreements with the social partners, and more transparency.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission because i believe that better law-making is needed to be effective and efficient in achieving the union's political objectives. it is also necessary to avoid administrative burdens for citizens and businesses and to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy. in this context, it is very important to ensure transparency in the process in order to increase citizens' trust in the european institutions, to involve the european parliament in the negotiation of new international agreements, to improve coordination between the council and parliament, and to encourage regular comprehensive impact assessments to establish the state of play.
‒ on 19 may 2015, the european commission published a better regulation package including a draft proposal for an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making (iia). this proposal will replace the existing 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and the 2005 interinstitutional joint approach to impact assessment, which will oversee the working practices between the council, the commission and parliament. the agreement covers three main areas: better regulation, interinstitutional relations and the legislative process including programming and implementation of acts. the agreement calls on the commission to draw up a detailed report on the parliament and council's requests within three months and to explain if it does not do so, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i welcome the agreement reached and the need to reconsider improving the transparency of the legislative process. the services available in the follow-up of the creation of european legislation via the internet when directives and regulations are in place are clear and transparent with a presentation of the status of the legislative proposal as well as the necessary information on deadlines and available supporting documents. delegated acts contribute to the functionality, efficiency, flexibility of union legislation allowing for swift action in case of need, which is very positive and applied at the very beginning of the russian embargo on eu fruit and vegetables. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament with the information it needs to make its decision on the drafting of delegated acts. it is for this reason that i support this agreement to establish a common functional register of delegated acts by the end of 2017 at the latest, through which information will be made available in a user-friendly manner, with the aim of improving transparency, facilitating planning and monitoring of all stages in the adoption of a given delegated act.
written. ‒ i welcome the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which provides for further interinstitutional negotiations, and consider it a good basis for establishing and developing a new, more open and transparent relationship between the institutions with a view to better law-making, better application of eu law and more transparency for the benefit of all union citizens. transparency and parity between legislations are key to achieving agreement and quality legislation more quickly in the areas of greatest value to european citizens, and quality legislation reduces excessive regulation and administrative burdens for citizens, administrations and businesses, in particular smes, thus contributing to the competitiveness and sustainability of the union economy.
written. i welcome this report and support it fully. i am convinced that the agreement reached between the european parliament, the council and the european commission on better law-making will contribute to a more open relationship between those institutions, all in the interests of the citizens of the union. i welcome this step by parliament, the council and the commission towards better lawmaking, but i would also like to point out that the european institutions have a lot of work to do in this respect, as the lawmaking process should be more transparent and simpler. success in this process, as the report states, is hard to imagine without close cooperation not only between the european institutions but also with the parliaments of the member states, bearing in mind the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ parliament has repeatedly called for the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making to be renegotiated in order to take account of the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty, consolidate current best practices and modernise the agreement in line with the better law-making agenda. i welcome the outcome of the negotiations on multiannual and annual interinstitutional programming, the commission's response to parliament's legislative initiatives and the presentation of the explanations and the holding of consultations on the envisaged withdrawals of legislative proposals. i would point out that the agreed strong focus on the commission work programme cannot be understood as justifying any limitation on parliament's legislative powers or its right of initiative. the three institutions confirmed their commitment to using the 'recast' legislative technique more frequently to amend existing legislation, in full compliance with the interinstitutional agreement of 28 november 2001 on the more systematic use of the 'recast' method. if the amendment is not appropriate, the commission shall, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 entitled 'accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts', submit a proposal as soon as possible after the adoption of the amending act. the three institutions also committed themselves to promoting the most effective regulatory instruments, such as harmonisation and mutual recognition, in order to avoid excessive regulation and administrative burdens and to meet the objectives of the treaty. that's why i endorsed the report.
written. ‒ taking into account the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty, integrating current best practices and modernising agreements in line with the better regulation agenda are key factors in making legislation as effective and adequate as possible within the european union. parliament has set out a number of important priorities which make a major contribution to the opening of negotiations on a new interinstitutional agreement. those priorities include better quality of legislative drafting in the commission, multiannual and annual programming, improvement of impact assessments of draft laws, a level playing field between the two branches of the legislature during the legislative process with regard to access to information, appropriate interinstitutional consultation, the commission's follow-up to parliament's proposals and recommendations, and detailed explanations for any envisaged withdrawal. furthermore, the agreement lays a firm foundation for the establishment and development of a new, more transparent and open relationship between the european parliament, the council of the eu and the european commission, with a view to better law-making for the benefit of eu citizens. i support the report by mrs hübner on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. i consider the cooperation of the three eu institutions in the area of legislation to be of great importance and to have a significant impact on everyday life in the eu.
written. ‒ the agreement with philip morris has partially fulfilled its purpose in reducing the accessibility of smuggled tobacco products to the eu market. but after 14 years, the situation has changed and it is no longer in the public health interest to have such an agreement with the tobacco industry.
written. ‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution on the tobacco agreement (b8-0311/2016 (eul/ngl)) and abstained on the european parliament resolution on the tobacco agreement (rc8-0312/2016 (s&d, greens/efa and efdd)) following the instructions and political decisions of the alde group in the european parliament.
written. ‒ the fight against smuggling of tobacco products requires more effective tools and measures in addition to the current agreements with the tobacco industry, tobacco companies and tobacco manufacturers. i accept the joint resolution on the grounds that it leads to additional consumer protection, the prevention of smuggling and fraud and the further suppression of the black market in tobacco and tobacco products. as many as 700,000 european union citizens die prematurely each year as a result of smoking. so i think we need to work on raising awareness among citizens about the harmful effects of smoking. the previous agreement with phillip morris international did not contribute to reducing the smuggling of tobacco products, nor did it have an impact on improving the public health of our citizens. unbranded cigarettes are increasingly available on the market and accessible to citizens, especially young people, at very low prices. i welcome the proposal expressed in the joint resolution calling on the commission to propose an action plan setting out new measures to urgently address the problem of unbranded cigarettes. i hope that this action plan will bear better fruit than the agreements with the tobacco industry which have not proved successful.
written. ‒ the main objective of the agreement with pmi was to reduce the spread of pmi's contraband products on the illicit tobacco market in the eu. at the end of february, the commission concluded in its technical assessment of the pmi agreement that this primary objective had been effectively achieved, but i am concerned that the reduction in pmi's smuggled products did not result in an overall reduction in the number of illegal products on the eu market. i would remind you that counterfeit cigarettes, which are illegally manufactured and imported, and whose ingredients are unknown, pose even greater health risks than the risks associated with the original products and create public health problems. the commission notes that the agreement with pmi initially made an important contribution to the fight against illicit trade in tobacco, but that since the signing of the current agreement there have been significant changes in both the market and regulatory environment, in particular with regard to the increased presence of cigarettes of an unknown brand intended for illicit sale - the so-called cheap whites. therefore, i consider that the agreement with pmi no longer represents added value for the eu in the fight against illicit trade in tobacco and that as such it should not be renewed.
written. i welcome this resolution and support it fully. the agreement with philip morris international currently in force expires in july this year and it is necessary to decide whether to sign a new one. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. as highlighted in the resolution, the previous agreement did not address the serious problem of smuggling of unbranded cigarettes, a trend that has been growing in recent years. the resolution also calls on the commission, which i particularly support, to ensure that any negotiations on a new tobacco agreement take place in a transparent atmosphere in order to avoid, as far as possible, conflicts of interest and to allow for an open and democratic debate.
written. ‒ i have supported this joint proposal for a regulation which will not allow the renewal of the tobacco agreement between the commission and philip morris international (pmi). the commission notes that the agreement between the two parties was concluded on the basis of the same principles as the one between the parties. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the implementation of the union's anti-smuggling legislation. protecting public health from the harmful effects of tobacco products is the cornerstone of my argument against the pmi agreement. all legal restrictions and policies related to the prices of tobacco products are enacted to deter people from smoking, and not only young people, and the illegal sale of cigarettes undermines the relevance and effectiveness of these restrictions and policies. i believe there are alternatives to the agreement which, once it ceases to be useful to the wider community, becomes only an obstacle to the adoption of new policies to protect european citizens.
written. ‒ protecting the eu's financial interests is one of the commission's top priorities and, according to some estimates, the illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular the smuggling of illicit and counterfeit cigarettes, costs national and eu budgets more than eur 10 billion a year in lost public revenues. the commission concludes in its technical assessment of the pmi agreement that this key objective has been effectively achieved, but questions the causal link of this result and points out that the reduction of pmi's contraband did not lead to an overall reduction of the number of illegal products on the eu market. the renewal of the agreement with pmi would therefore be incompatible with the eu's obligations under article 5 (3) of the who fctc protocol, which could harm the eu's reputation as a global leader in the field of tobacco control, and i supported the resolution.
written. ‒ the tobacco industry is now one of the largest in the world and brings in huge financial revenues, contributing to the strong growth of the economies of many countries around the world. however, the illicit trade in tobacco products is also widespread. such illegal trade, in particular the smuggling of counterfeit cigarettes, results in losses of revenues for the european union and its member states, amounting to more than eur 10 billion a year when unpaid customs duties, taxes and excise duties are taken into account. the tobacco products directive provides for a legal obligation, which will enter into force by 2019 at the latest, requiring tobacco companies to establish and maintain a system for tracing and tracing tobacco products. however, it is essential that the commission take measures to ensure the full transposition of the tobacco products directive into the national legislation of all member states of the european union and that the commission focus on european and international legislative instruments in order to tackle smuggled and counterfeited cigarettes more effectively. i agree that member states must implement the tobacco products directive in a timely manner and in particular the measures relating to the tracing and tracing of tobacco products. i also think it is wrong that the annual payments of the tobacco industry partly finance the budget of the european anti-fraud office, because such activity can lead to conflicts of interest.
written. ‒ i believe that tobacco fraud affects public health and poses an even greater health risk than original tobacco products because counterfeit cigarettes are produced and imported illegally and use unknown ingredients. i maintain that the central objective of this agreement is to reduce the presence of smuggled tobacco products in the illicit tobacco market in the european union. i stress that the european commission must look for ways to deal with the current situation in a transparent and responsible manner with the involvement of the european parliament. therefore, i consider that all arguments for and against the extension of the agreement with philip morris international should be taken into account as its extension marks a transitional arrangement to prevent a regulatory vacuum until the tobacco products directive fully enters into force.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr. president, last year we had a debate in this house about eritrea. all political groups were generally sceptical of the commission's idea of providing development aid and asked the commission if, if it does, this cooperation must focus on issues of good governance and respect for human rights, as it is the systematic violation of human rights by the dictatorial regime that is the reason people are fleeing eritrea to europe. the programme proposed by the commission shortly afterwards focuses on energy investment and, to a lesser extent, on effective management in the energy sector and therefore did not reflect the conclusions of our debate in parliament. the representatives of the development committee gave a negative recommendation for its adoption. however, the recommendation of the development committee was also ignored, the commission proposal almost unchanged, adopted unanimously at the edf committee meeting. i would therefore like to draw particular attention to the paragraph in our joint resolution calling for an interinstitutional agreement of a binding nature, which will better regulate parliament's supervision of the european development fund.
mr. president, we have witnessed for years that eritrea is the country with the worst human rights violations, where we have forms of slavery, where we do not have, of course, even religious freedom, not to mention violence against women, the lgbt community and their rights, of course, there is no talk at all, the imprisonment of our fellow representatives, the imprisonment of our europeans in eritrea and all that we have heard. should we help eritrea? in the end, yes, we should help eritrea. all of us here are saying we need to help in a way that the development fund can channel the funds to what will be for the citizens of eritrea. dear minister, are we capable of doing this? we guarantee that this money will actually end up in the hands of the dictator, because otherwise the aid is pointless.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank our colleagues in parliament and congratulate them on the excellent work they are doing to stabilise the balkans and to stabilise macedonia. what i want to emphasize here is also an open dialogue with greece and i think that's really great and i want to encourage my colleagues in both greece and macedonia to really try to find common ground on all issues as they have already succeeded on many issues. what i want to emphasise in particular as rapporteur for the adriatic-ionian strategy of this parliament is that i support what is said in the report because i know that it is extremely important for macedonia to enter the adriatic-ionian strategy of the european union and in this way we all embrace together this country that needs our help. finally, mr hahn, please do everything you can right now to help the 15,000 people who are on the border between greece and macedonia and to resolve this situation because it is really unsustainable.
mr. president, i congratulate my colleague, mr. weigl, on an objective account of a truly turbulent year for macedonia. on the one hand, the content of our discussions is repeated, the same recommendations to open negotiations, the name quarrel without any concrete progress, but on the other hand, the political situation in the country has unfortunately gradually deteriorated. that's why we welcome the agreement from pržina, an agreement between the government and the opposition after the involvement of our colleagues. the status quo would only increase the country's problems, but there is a real danger that they will become chronic or even spill over into its borders. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. macedonia is a small, multiethnic country burdened by serious internal conflicts in a turbulent geopolitical environment. problems such as allegations of illegal wiretapping of thousands of citizens, threats to journalists, widespread corruption, and the often intertwined activities of parties and the state have resulted in deep divisions in society and a lack of political dialogue. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the reforms agreed in the council's common position on the reform of the common agricultural policy.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. deputy, fully understanding your sensitivity on this subject, i will only say that in international political communication we have of course macedonia recognized under the name of its constitution and macedonia under the name you use, meaning the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. my country the republic of croatia has recognized macedonia under its constitutional name and despite the sensitivities i understand, i will continue to use that name. i hope there's an agreement between skopje and athens.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr tannock, you mentioned that you were in favour of accession and opening negotiations with macedonia. what do you think, given your report on montenegro, about this country's membership in nato? secondly, do you think the commission has given enough financial resources to resolve this difficult humanitarian situation on the greek-macedonian border which is becoming more demanding every day?
mr president, i congratulate mr weigl on his report and thank him for accepting my amendments concerning macedonia's membership of nato and the opening of negotiations with the european union. i fully agree with him that macedonia is the candidate country that has made the most progress in aligning its legislation with the acquis. therefore, it is unfair that macedonia has been kept in a waiting room for more than 10 years. i call on the council to open negotiations with macedonia and to resolve bilateral issues during the negotiations. i also express my concern about the non-respect of the agreement reached last year regarding the holding of elections in macedonia. i think, commissioner hahn, that the election should not have been postponed because it is demanded by those who want to rule without elections. such a situation causes political instability in the country and hinders the implementation of reforms. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. macedonia needs the european union and the union needs macedonia. i therefore call once again on the council to open negotiations with macedonia.
mr president, i would like to start by congratulating mr weigl on his excellent report, and i have two requests to make to the honourable commissioner. one is to find mechanisms to strengthen the administrative capacity in the eu delegation in macedonia, because macedonia lost 70 million euros decommitment ipa, and the system is actually centralized and these funds are contracted by the delegation. so, we should avoid that in the next few periods. the second request is related to the return of these 70 million euros to macedonia to be used for managing the migrant crisis because this country has to invest a lot in border management and quality accommodation of refugees, and the 70 million lost is a lot. i also ask you to take into account that all this that macedonia had to do in the negotiations should have been done by other countries, which were much faster and more successful when the negotiations were open.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, let me start by thanking you for the continuous and constructive contribution of the european parliament to the advancement of montenegro’s accession process to the european union and, in particular, your rapporteur charles tannock. over the past year, relations between the european union and montenegro have maintained a positive momentum. in its conclusions adopted in december last year, the council welcomed the continued progress. it took positive note of improvements in the legal framework in the area of the rule of law and work on the establishment of new institutions. now the council also noted with satisfaction montenegro’s positive role in further developing regional cooperation and in advancing good neighbourly relations. it also commended montenegro for its cooperation on foreign policy issues, in particular, for its continued full alignment with the eu’s foreign policy positions. it is furthermore encouraging evidence that two further negotiation chapters could be opened up at the accession conference in december, bringing the total number of chapters now opened to 22 out of 35. looking to the future, we need to stress again the importance of the rule of law, which is a fundamental value of the european union and a cross cutting concern for the enlargement process. as your draft resolution rightly points out, further progress in montenegro’s accession negotiations continues to depend on progress in this area. the council also restated how important it is for the entire rule of law system to deliver concrete results, in particular, by establishing a solid track record in the fight against corruption and organised crime. further efforts are needed to focus on effective reform implementation, leading to tangible results towards the interim benchmarks. the council will continue to closely monitor developments in this area. on a related note, the council shares the view expressed in your draft resolution that montenegro should intensify its efforts to guarantee freedom of expression and of the media, to pursue the public administration reform and to strengthen the independence of institutions, as well as to improve the business environment. your draft resolution spells out many other important concerns to address, which are also highlighted by the findings of the commission’s progress report. with the upcoming parliamentary elections in montenegro this year, i would stress that ensuring the full implementation of the new electoral legislation is crucial. we are well aware that montenegro currently is facing a difficult political situation and that this could hamper the reform efforts. therefore, it is important to recall the need for all political parties to show responsibility and to re-engage in constructive dialogue, with parliament being the key forum for political debate. in this context, we count on the government and on the opposition to work together, not least to meet the expectations of the montenegrin citizens. this is also important for ensuring public trust in the political process and in the state institutions. sustainable and constructive cooperation remains essential to maintaining the necessary political commitments to effectively address outstanding challenges, to deliver on the reform agenda and to progress in the accession negotiations. dialogue and inclusiveness are also key issues raised by your draft resolution, and i would like to stress how valuable it is that this message is passed on to montenegro. in this respect the european parliament’s important contribution through its work in the stabilisation and association parliamentary committee is most welcome. mr president, let me conclude by saying that, looking ahead, we do hope to see continued progress.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for your invitation to the discussion on parliament’s resolution on montenegro. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for montenegro, charles tannock, for his balanced and comprehensive draft resolution. it is a text that well reflects the assessment of the commission’s 2015 montenegro report. this june, we will mark four years since the opening of accession negotiations with montenegro. as your resolution points out, we have, as was already mentioned by the minister, to date opened 22 negotiating chapters with montenegro, of which two are provisionally closed. concerning the rule of law, which is, as you know, at the heart of the accession process, over the last few years we have seen the first steps in achieving lasting reforms, through the adoption of legislation and the establishment of institutions. as you also point out however – and as the commission stated in its november report – this is not the whole story. our assessment is, unfortunately, that real progress on the ground on the rule of law remains limited, including in establishing a track record in the fight against corruption and organised crime. this is the message that the commission is giving to montenegro at a rule of law meeting in podgorica today. when i met prime minister djukanovic last month, i congratulated him on his country’s invitation to join nato. i also stressed, however, that while the country was moving ahead overall, we were now entering a decisive phase, in particular in the accession negotiations and on the rule of law. we need to see montenegro making credible progress on chapters 23 and 24. we must see a tangible track record of implementation. this is not only for the benefit of the accession negotiations: legal certainty, a functioning independent judicial system, a transparent administration and fundamental rights, such as for instance property rights, are necessary not only for meeting the rule of law criteria; they are preconditions for attracting investment, improving competitiveness and stimulating growth and jobs. and therefore, as you know, i prefer to talk about the accession process and less about negotiations because it is about the development of a country towards european union membership. we are also working very closely with montenegro on improving the country’s competitiveness through our economic dialogue. the focus is on sectoral reforms, including on education, labour market, infrastructure, and the business environment. concerning the other negotiating chapters, we have given montenegro guidance on what needs to be done, through the opening benchmarks. meeting them is a challenge for the country, in particular when we talk about alignment with the eu acquis on competition policy, or environment and climate change. let me turn now to the political situation in montenegro. the political dialogue that was launched in december was put on hold, without an agreement, on 19 february. however, despite the fact that there is, to date, no agreement among the political leaders on the establishment of a ‘government of electoral trust’, it is crucial that the dialogue within the parliament continues. this year, montenegro will hold local and parliamentary elections. the full implementation of the electoral legislation is crucial for the organisation of these elections so that they are credible. it is the responsibility of montenegro’s political leaders to ensure this.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank mr tannocku for a quality report which deals well with the overall situation in montenegro and for the good cooperation which i hope and believe has contributed to the quality of this report. montenegro is the most advanced of the six western balkan countries on the road to the european union. although it is the smallest country, it can have a major positive impact on the entire western balkans area, and in particular on two neighbouring countries, namely kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina, if the process is successful. the report is very clear on all the open questions and i agree with commissioner hahn that the integration of montenegro is at a critical point. it is time for montenegro to show real progress in a number of areas mentioned in the report, such as the judiciary, the fight against corruption, media freedom, the fight against organised crime, the role and strength of civil society, minority rights, but i would like to emphasise one of the most important things in my opinion for montenegro, which is elections. this country has been deeply divided since its inception. part of the political forces in that country are actually against independence, almost against the existence of that country, and that's why the elections that are ahead of us are actually the most important process. if these are fair, clear and transparent elections that will not be challenged by any significant political force, then montenegro will have a democratic future and then its path towards the european union will be much clearer. with the perpetuation of conflict in montenegro after the elections, the chances of montenegro being a democratic country and succeeding on its way to the european union are considerably less. i therefore call on the commission to follow this process of preparation and conduct of elections in montenegro particularly actively.
madam president, when it comes to montenegro, i can say that solid progress has been made when it comes to integration and certainly that progress in montenegro in terms of integration should be supported. to all commend the progress in foreign and defence policy where alignment with eu policy has been achieved. however, there is still a lot of work to be done to get montenegro in the situation, regardless of the fact that it has already opened 22 chapters and regardless of everything that has been done so far, i would like some of my amendments that have passed, some that have not, to be noted. i thank mr tannocki for his excellent report but i would like to note in the context of good neighbourly relations that progress has been made with regard to bosnia and herzegovina, but we have not yet resolved the issue of the overlordship with regard to croatia. i would also like to mention the question of the succession of military assets of the former socialist federal republic of yugoslavia. also to be mentioned here is the fair compensation for the victims of the montenegrin camps, remembering the recent patriotic war, which we have not yet solved and i think it's the moment to mention it here. there is also the côte d'ivoire as a special region, which i think should be taken into account and its identity should be nurtured. anyway, i'm all for this report, but i had a need to mention these specifics.
madam president, mr charles tannock's report is a comprehensive and balanced document because it clearly explains the areas in which montenegro has made clear progress in the past year, but also problems such as, for example, high levels of corruption that are clearly more resistant to reform. measurable progress has been made in the twenty-two open chapters in the membership negotiations, including chapters 23 and 24. i would also like to congratulate montenegro on its recent call to join the nato alliance. as the representative from croatia, i am delighted with the geopolitical fact that a new member of the alliance is coming to our land and sea border. twenty-five years ago, an aggression against my country was launched from that space, and in the future, we will be dealing with security issues jointly with a new ally. a few open questions remain - border demarcation, the succession of the former yugoslavia, reparations to war victims are just some of them. in addition, the protection of the multi-ethnic character of boka kotorska must be one of the priorities. despite progress, montenegro faces a period of time before joining the european union in which it will have to resolve a number of internal blockages by adapting to european standards. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. moreover, the pace and quality of the work that the country has to do is certainly affected by the relationship between the government and the opposition, and it is at this moment, unfortunately, seriously damaged.
madam president, montenegro is going through a major political crisis, so i think it's too optimistic to expect genuine commitment to reform at this point. but what concerns me most is that montenegro is not doing enough to improve relations with its neighbors. the border dispute with croatia has not even started to be resolved, and montenegro is nevertheless proceeding with exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the adriatic sea, counting on almost 2000 square kilometers of the croatian sea and departing from the protocol on the provisional regime along the southern border of 2002. in 2011, croatia sent a protest note to montenegro over the designation of hydrocarbon exploration and production blocks, whose lateral border with croatia deviated significantly from the demarcation line under the 2002 protocol. the montenegrins have the right to exploit oil and gas from the adriatic, but only in their waters, the final dimensions of which we will not know until the border issue is resolved.
madam vice-president, first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr tannock, on the preparation of his report. it is clear that montenegro has gone the furthest on its european journey of any country in south-east europe with twenty-two temporarily opened chapters and a few closed ones. the key now is to address the systemic reforms imposed by chapters 23 and 24, namely judicial independence, the fight against corruption and organised crime and the rule of law. after the serious political crisis we have witnessed in recent months, i believe that reaching a broad inter-party consensus in the process of european integration is a key issue for further stability and a culture of dialogue in montenegro. also, congratulations on your invitation to join the north atlantic alliance that will stabilize montenegro, but also the entire adriatic basin. i expect montenegro to respect the rights of minorities, especially the rights of the croatian minority, to resolve the remaining issues related to the dissolution of the former sfry, to prosecute war crimes and also to resolve the issue of the adriatic training ship.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. i've studied most of the part that deals with justice and the fight against corruption. i have been working on this issue for more than ten years and i have to say that montenegro is facing an ambitious programme to improve the functioning of domestic justice, the issue of introducing a code of ethics for judges or a new disciplinary procedure, as well as strengthening judicial councils. these are necessary conditions, but they must not be limited to the introduction of laws, they must also be implemented in practice. and i want to ask and urge the commission to be as helpful as possible to montenegro in this matter. we as the czech republic were helped at the time of accession when experts, judges from the member states went to the czech republic and helped to put the unwritten rules, but also the written laws, into practice. so please, commissioner, let us help montenegro, not just by stating what needs to be introduced, but let us also try to strengthen the rule of law in montenegro with our own activity.
madam president, i fully agree with the commissioner that the process of joining the european union is much more than negotiations. it is about democratizing society and embracing the values of partnership, competitiveness and an open single market of common european policies. i am therefore pleased that in the debate we have placed particular emphasis on the establishment of a business-friendly environment which means an efficient judiciary and a fast and simple public administration. i am particularly interested in chapters 22 and 32, where progress is unfortunately modest, and these chapters indicate montenegro's readiness to establish a quality and transparent management of public finances. i believe that we need to increase our technical assistance to help montenegro with all the changes that are ahead of it. in conclusion, i would point out that in the process of joining the european union it is important to resolve open issues with neighbouring countries, and for croatia the issues of borders, succession of property and compensation for the victims of the montenegrin camps are very important.
madam president, montenegro is a great example of how, when negotiations are under way, the country can be rapidly democratized, how changes are taking place and how the authorities are beginning to adapt to what european standards mean. so this is a good example for montenegro's neighbours, and i'm thinking primarily of albania, which is never really going to start negotiations with the european union, and we know how important it is that this happens in albania, and of course in bosnia and herzegovina and macedonia, which we talked about earlier. what i want to emphasize as a friend of montenegro, as someone who is often in that country, is my call to both the authorities and the opposition in montenegro, i really want to call for a sincere dialogue, an open conversation between the government and the opposition in montenegro and the non-parliamentary opposition, so that fair elections can be held and that we can really accelerate the accession and the rapprochement of montenegro to the european union after these elections.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation governs the distribution and use of veterinary medicines, but my focus was on combating antimicrobial resistance. it is important that the regulation contains a provision to ban certain antibiotics in veterinary medicine in order to preserve them for human use. but for that to make sense, it has to be retroactive, so it has to include an obligation to withdraw from the market those spare antibiotics that are already on the market. furthermore, it is essential to link the distribution of antibiotics to a prescription issued by an authorised person. also, to prevent possible misuse in the interest of public health, the online sale of antibiotics should be prohibited. human and animal health are increasingly linked through our dietary habits and intensive farming methods, and therefore the antibiotic problem must be addressed through a 'one health' approach. the alarm bells have long been ringing, and future generations may wonder if it's possible that we have ruined one of the greatest achievements in medical science for profit. through this law, the european union has a unique opportunity to contribute to the global effort to preserve the efficacy of antibiotics. in conclusion, i believe that the proposal for a regulation coming from parliament is well designed and will contribute to better protection of animal and human health.
mr. chairman, the role of a whistleblower is of immense importance to any society. it's about the most responsible and courageous individuals who alert the problem before it becomes insoluble. unfortunately, they rarely get the recognition they deserve, and much more often, with their health in jeopardy and disappointed in the system, they leave their jobs within a year or two. in countries where the rule of law is shaken, systemic failings and corruption make it almost impossible for whistleblowers to find genuine satisfaction. whereas in many developed countries, they have a very hard time getting the best lawyers because they prefer to have wealthy corporations as their clients who don't want to work with those who represent whistleblowers. we also often see politicians flirting with whistle-blowers because they have a high moral standing in the public eye and they make easy political points. i think that the policy towards whistle-blowers should be much more constructive and responsible, because they are the ones who point out what needs to be fixed, and because of their experience and knowledge of the internal situation, they often offer concrete, quality solutions. for all this, we need to strongly promote the positive role of whistle-blowers in society, and our states need to do everything possible to ensure that the best legal assistance is available to them at all times. we must also be prepared to offer whistle-blowers from third countries asylum in the european union to protect them and their families from reprisals and possible harm.
mr president, the lesson we have learned from the initial failure of the international community to respond to the ebola epidemic is that we need a comprehensive response and coordination mechanism in emergencies, and i therefore welcome the commission's decision to establish a european health unit to facilitate the mobilisation of medical and public health teams and equipment in emergencies inside and outside the eu. measures to respond more quickly to emergencies are necessary. but we must not lose sight of long-term solutions. although different in many ways, there is one link between the ebola and zika epidemics. both are mostly, at least for now, diseases of the poor and the marginalized. the weak health systems of affected countries in west africa in the case of ebola, and in the case of zika, the lack of access to adequate sanitation in vulnerable communities in south america were important factors in the spread of the virus. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's development policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's development policy.
mr. president, the zika virus is a threat that disproportionately affects women. calls for women to refrain from pregnancy are inappropriate, since pregnancy is often not a matter of choice, especially in poorer and underdeveloped lands. i support the un recommendations on access to sexual and reproductive health services. women in poorer areas often lack access to information, tests, and medicines. i therefore call on the commission and the authorities of the affected countries to take into account the specific challenges and difficulties faced by women. the current threat to europe is relatively small, but with the arrival of warmer and wetter weather, there is a chance that mosquitoes will start spreading the virus to our end of the world. if this happens, it will not be stopped by national borders, and therefore member states, regional authorities and the commission must be prepared to respond in a coordinated and effective manner. furthermore, prevention is the best medicine and i therefore call on the commission to strongly support efforts to find a vaccine and to provide all the necessary assistance to countries fighting this virus.
written. in the banking sector, we need more europe. that is why i support the creation of a european banking union. it is a way of managing money flows more efficiently and uniformly and strengthening the monetary union. it will also create much-needed stability in the banking sector. the additional argument is certainly the possibility of guaranteeing citizens that they will not run out of money and that banks will not be bailed out by taxpayers' money through a uniformly high level of deposits, financed from the financial sector.
mr. president, i support this resolution because the situation in the congo is indeed very difficult. humanitarian organizations estimate that at present 7.5 million people are denied access to clean water and hospitals, and many children are unable to attend school or have nowhere to go. conflicts and military operations have displaced three million people inside the congo and 500,000 outside the country, mostly finding refuge from wars in neighboring countries. i believe that the next presidential and parliamentary elections, scheduled for november this year, will represent the first democratic transition of power after decades of civil war and political instability in that african country. we all need to contribute to the democratic process in the congo.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia because i support efforts to help tunisia's economy, which has been significantly weakened by terrorist attacks and political events. in this context, i support the introduction of urgent autonomous trade measures, which is also the position of the alde group. however, it is necessary to establish whether olive oil will be imported directly from tunisia and to prevent possible attempts at smuggling or fraudulent origin of the same. i therefore consider that the proposed measures should take into account the protection of european olive oil producers and prevent market disturbances.
written. ‒ to express solidarity with tunisia and support its democratic regime, the european commission has proposed the introduction of temporary unilateral duty-free quotas of 35 000 tonnes per year for tunisian olive oil exports to the european union, in addition to the existing quota of 57 000 tonnes. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the quota. i consider this eu measure to be partial and am concerned that it will have a negative impact on european farmers. tunisia, as a country with a still fragile democracy, needs help, including economic measures. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's financial contribution to tunisia is limited to eur 500000 per beneficiary. political decisions make farmers suffer who did not contribute to those decisions, and then the damage caused by market disturbances is covered by the eu budget. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i therefore believe that the experience of the russian embargo calls us to find a balance between the aid to be given to tunisia and the protection of our agricultural production.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ following the terrorist attack in sousse, tunisia, on 26 june 2015, the council of the european union stated in its conclusions of 20 july 2015 that the union would, after consulting its member states, explore the possibility of taking exceptional and temporary measures to support the tunisian economy. the commission has also examined the application of the union state aid rules to the olive oil sector in tunisia. a duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes is therefore opened for 2016 for imports into the union of virgin olive oil falling within cn codes 1509 10 10 and 1509 10 90 wholly produced in tunisia and consigned directly from tunisia to the union. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union has not yet entered into a comprehensive free trade area with tunisia.
written. ‒ i supported the introduction of urgent autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia, as i believe that their introduction will be beneficial for both parties, both for tunisia and for the european union. in particular, tunisia is facing a difficult economic situation due to terrorist attacks and the country will benefit greatly from a duty-free tariff quota of 35 thousand tonnes per year for olive oil exports to the european union. however, i would like to stress once again that an impact assessment on the olive oil market in the european union will be carried out and corrective measures will be taken if it is established that the provisions affect the union market.
written. - this regulation regulates the distribution and use of veterinary medicines, but my main focus has been on those parts dealing with the suppression of antimicrobial resistance. it is important that the regulation contains a provision to ban certain antibiotics in veterinary medicine in order to preserve them for human use. but for that to make sense, it has to be retroactive, so it has to include an obligation to withdraw from the market those reserved antibiotics that are already on the market. furthermore, it is crucial to link the distribution of antibiotics to a prescription issued by the responsible person. also, to prevent possible misuse in the interest of public health, the online sale of antibiotics should be prohibited. in conclusion, i believe that the proposal for a regulation coming from parliament is well designed and will contribute to better protection of animal and human health.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products because i believe that it is necessary to ensure the availability of safe, effective and affordable products throughout the union by encouraging their responsible use. the fight against the emergence of antimicrobial resistance is of particular importance and, in addition, great attention is paid to improving the regulatory framework related to the prudent use of antimicrobials for the treatment of animals. it is also necessary to reduce the administrative burden for all the actors involved, which is the position of the alde group, and i therefore support this report.
‒ directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 define the procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and animal use. the objective of this report is to consolidate the instruments for veterinary products. all the conditions under which veterinary products may be used, how and when antibiotics are used for animals are defined. this report introduces the harmonisation of the system for the use of veterinary products, stimulates the development of veterinary medicine and takes particular account of the reduction of the negative impact on the environment, which is why i supported it.
written. ‒ i supported the postponement of the vote and the opening of negotiations on this report with the council and the commission. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the authorisation of antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products for use in animal husbandry and the rules on the authorisation of the use of antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products for use in animal husbandry. the use of metaphylactic antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products shall be limited to use in clinically sick animals and in individual cases where there is a risk of disease spread. i'm advocating for a stricter standard when it comes to veterinary medicine because it's about the health of all of us who eat meat and meat products. i pay particular attention to online sales, where rules are becoming stricter, i.e. antimicrobials, biological and immunological veterinary medicinal products cannot be offered for sale online. i also recall the importance of protecting animal health and the possible consequences to which they would be exposed by the irresponsible use of medicines.
written. ‒ the legal framework for veterinary medicinal products needs to be adapted to scientific progress, current market conditions and economic realities, respecting animals, nature and their interaction with humans. animals can suffer from a whole range of diseases that must be prevented or treated with veterinary medicinal products to ensure their health, and it is our role to ensure that pharmaceutical substances or veterinary medicinal products manufactured or placed on the market do not have harmful effects on human or animal health or any unacceptable impact on the environment. for that reason, i support this regulation on veterinary medicinal products, which provides better access to veterinary medicinal products, takes measures to combat antimicrobial resistance, reduces the burden of administrative procedures and barriers and encourages research, innovation and competitiveness in the sector.
written. i support the report by mrs grossette. given that the needs and characteristics of the veterinary sector are different from those of the human sector and that the two markets for medicinal products function differently, i consider it necessary to establish a new regulatory framework for veterinary medicinal products. after all, it's the manufacturing itself that dictates it. the production of veterinary medicinal products is considered to be more demanding and costly due to the market failure caused by the quantity of different animal species. it is necessary to attract more investors even though the cost of the drugs themselves is lower than that for human consumption. it is not possible to apply the human medicines market model to veterinary medicines. in addition, this regulation would achieve the objective of increasing the availability of veterinary medicinal products to the population engaged in activities such as livestock farming. depending on the species, different diseases may occur and it is necessary for this regulation to ensure a high standard of animal health. it shall be achieved by improving the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal for a regulation because it has the potential to simplify the regulatory environment and reduce the administrative burden in the issuance and management of veterinary medicinal products. the proposal will stimulate the development of new veterinary medicines and encourage their online sale throughout the european union. this regulation sets out criteria for good breeding and management practices in order to enhance animal welfare. veterinary prescriptions will in future require a full clinical examination of the animals, rather than just evidence of continuous health checks. better data on how, when, where and why antimicrobials are used is also needed. member states therefore undertake to analyse and publish data on the volume of sales of antimicrobials. the production of antimicrobials also has an impact on the environment, but unfortunately this regulation does not require manufacturers to report data on those impacts. a great deal of progress has been made in approving homeopathic medicines for use in humans, for use in all animals, including those used for food production.
written. ‒ in the light of experience gained and following the assessment of the functioning of the veterinary medicinal products market carried out by the commission, the legal framework for veterinary medicinal products needs to be adapted to scientific progress, current market conditions and economic realities. animals can suffer from a whole range of diseases that can be prevented or treated. the impact of animal diseases and the measures needed to combat them can be devastating for individual animals, animal populations, animal owners and the economy. animal diseases transmissible to humans can also have a significant impact on public health. therefore, sufficient effective veterinary medicinal products must be available in the union to ensure high standards of animal and public health and the development of the agriculture and aquaculture sectors. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a database on pharmacovigilance activities in the union. the database should improve the detection of adverse events and enable and facilitate pharmacovigilance surveillance and the division of work between competent authorities and i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ veterinary medicinal products require the same or even greater attention as human medicinal products. in the livestock sector, it is particularly important that newer and better medicines are available, as it is essential that veterinary medicinal products are available at reasonable prices to livestock farmers. the commission's proposal is to be simplified and clarified by the european parliament. at the same time, the testing of new products, the monitoring of their side effects and impacts on animal health, and the impacts on public health and the environment must not be reduced in any way. i supported the delay and the continuation of the negotiations at interinstitutional level.
written. ‒ in the light of experience gained and following the commission's assessment of the functioning of the veterinary medicinal products market, the legal framework for veterinary medicinal products needs to be adapted to scientific progress, current market conditions and economic realities, which is why i supported this report. the impact of animal diseases can be devastating for individual animals, animal populations, animal owners and the economy. therefore, sufficient effective veterinary medicinal products must be available in the union to ensure high standards of animal and public health. in addition, this report is also relevant for the fight against antimicrobial resistance and therefore a number of measures need to be taken. the rules on advertising of veterinary antimicrobials should be tightened and the requirements for authorisation should sufficiently cover the risks and benefits of antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products. although i voted in favour, i do not think that the sale of all veterinary medicinal products via the internet should be completely banned, but that additional control measures should be introduced to prevent the sale of falsified medicines and medicines of poor quality.
written. ‒ in order to make the regulation on veterinary medicinal products work, the acts regulating the ema's activities need to be amended. i consider that the proposal is well thought out and will contribute to better protection of animal and human health.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending the regulation laying down the procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency, as i believe that the legislative framework regulating human and veterinary medicine at european level needs to be improved. i support parliament's intention to strengthen the european medicines agency to enable it to fulfil its tasks and to ensure that the fees paid to the agency are subject to a democratic decision-making process. the european parliament should also be more involved in the dynamics of decision-making in the area concerned, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ in september 2014, the commission published a proposal to consolidate the rules on veterinary medicines into a single regulation on veterinary medicinal products. it is proposed to establish certain principles applicable to the fees paid and to adapt the regulation to the treaty of lisbon. i supported this report which calls for two major changes: the first contains a legal tool for deciding on the fees to be paid to the european medicines agency (ema), and the second concerns the duration of the commission's delegation procedure which is limited to a period of 5 years.
written. ‒ i welcome the changes towards the separation of veterinary and human medicine outlets. the report clearly defines the conditions under which veterinary medicinal products professionals may prescribe and market antibiotics. this is clearly a step forward in terms of clear guidelines and removing any manipulation of misinterpretation of the rules. i support the definition of a list of critical antibiotics intended solely and strictly for human consumption. the scientific recommendations of the competent authorities, in this case the european medicines agency, should be included. banning the online sale of medicines is a good decision in terms of preventing potential public health hazards. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the veterinary medicinal products market, taking into account the need to ensure that the veterinary medicinal products market is open to innovation.
‒ directive 2001/82 of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 of the european parliament and of the council lay down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establish a european medicines agency, and these directives establish a regulatory framework for the manufacture, authorisation and distribution of veterinary medicinal products. i welcome the commission's proposal, based on the assessment of the functioning of the internal market in the sector, to harmonise the rules on veterinary medicinal products and to repeal and replace the existing directives, in order to fully separate the provisions on veterinary medicinal products from those governing human medicinal products. i also set out the principles applicable to the fees paid to the european medicines agency, and would like to stress further that any such initiative must involve the european parliament and respect it as one of the legislators in setting the structure and level of fees paid to the agency.
written. i support the report by mr tanasescu. i agree with the proposal for a regulation laying down procedures for the authorisation, supervision and pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human use, and i also believe that it is necessary to separate the registration of veterinary medicinal products from that of human medicinal products. the needs and demands of the veterinary sector are greater. the european union carries out the evaluation and supervision of medicines and medical devices on its market and applies specific rules to them. the european medicines agency or national agencies have a duty to authorise pharmaceutical products for human use before they are placed on the open market, under a centralised or decentralised procedure.
written. ‒ the placing of new medicinal products on the market requires strict but prudent regulation, in particular to ensure that quality, safety and efficacy measures are implemented in a timely manner by the competent authorities. i therefore supported this regulation as it takes account of technical and health progress and facilitates the placing of new human and veterinary medicinal products on the european market. the new regulation covers all the ways of obtaining authorisation for the entry of new medicinal products for human and veterinary use on the eu market both centralised and national. the establishment of the european medicines agency is a major step in strengthening the union's capacity to authorise medicinal products entering the markets of the member states and it is necessary to carefully define the criteria for the selection of future members of the board to lead the agency itself. a robust analysis of the amount of funding to be allocated to the agency, depending on the scope of its activities and the technical requirements for the registration of medical devices, is also needed.
‒ directive 2001/82/ec of the european parliament and of the council and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 of the european parliament and of the council constituted the union regulatory framework for the manufacture, authorisation and distribution of veterinary medicinal products. as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission by regulation (ec) no 726/2004 should be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in order to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of regulation (ec) no 726/2004, the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty should be delegated to the commission in respect of amending the annexes in the field of technical and scientific progress to facilitate the placing on the market of new medicinal products, to determine the circumstances in which post-authorisation efficacy studies may be required, to lay down the terms and conditions of and the requirements for the granting of marketing authorisations subject to certain specific obligations, to establish procedures for examining applications for variations to the terms of marketing authorisations and for examining applications for the granting of marketing authorisations, and to establish procedures for the investigation of infringements and the imposition of criminal penalties or periodic penalty payments on new marketing authorisation holders granted on the basis of this regulation.
written. ‒ veterinary medicinal products require the same or even greater attention as human medicinal products. in the livestock sector, it is particularly important that newer and better medicines are available, as it is essential that veterinary medicinal products are available at reasonable prices to livestock farmers. the commission's proposal is to be simplified and clarified by the european parliament. at the same time, the testing of new products, the monitoring of their side effects and impacts on animal health, and the impacts on public health and the environment must not be reduced in any way. in addition, medicines for rare diseases are one of the most important reasons for the revision of veterinary pharmaceutical legislation. i support the report setting out the procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human use and establishing a european medicines agency, as i believe that applications for authorisation of veterinary medicinal products within the eu need to be assessed qualitatively, including the distribution of powers between the eu and the member states, as well as the scope and extent of the obligations of the european medicines agency, whose activities must be justified in the draft budgets. the commission notes that the measure is not imputable to the state.
written. ‒ since the commission has decided to consolidate the rules on veterinary medicinal products under a single common regulation on veterinary medicinal products, which repeals and replaces the veterinary medicines directive and the supplementary regulations, this report is necessary to fully separate the provisions on veterinary medicinal products from those governing the regulations on medicinal products for human use. that is why i supported this report. however, there is one controversial provision on the structure and level of fees for the european medicines agency. in particular, although the rapporteur has amended the commission's proposal to provide that those provisions should be adopted by means of an implementing act allowing member states to take a final decision, i do not support his view but remain of the view that this should remain the responsibility of the commission and the regulatory authorities of the member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on communication towards a growing data-driven economy because it strengthens the european digital single market and encourages the union's competitiveness and technological progress. a great emphasis is placed on information and communication technologies, which are becoming increasingly important for all sectors of society and for the launch of the economy. in this regard, it is necessary to reduce the obstacles to such development and growth. however, it is necessary to ensure effective data protection and to prevent any kind of abuse of the free flow of data. accordingly, the legislative framework should be adapted to new conditions requiring certain changes and alignments.
written. ‒ the amendments adopted are a sign that the commission has recognised the potential and importance of this report as it relates to the emerging data-driven economy. by developing the accompanying infrastructure such as broadband, high-performance computing infrastructure, the future development of the internet, the development of ipv6 and secure storage, we are contributing to economic growth and this is the way we should go. we see that market requirements are changing; in particular by focusing on professionals with skills such as 'data management' and coding, and on this basis i believe that this resolution, with the amendments adopted, is in line with the needs of consistency and the objectives of a growing economy. government databases are a tool that should serve the common good and i sincerely hope that this resolution will make that happen. data protection is a very important issue for every citizen of the european union and the world today. europe must be a leader in personal data protection to create new standards on a global scale that others will follow.
written. ‒ the development of big data systems is an integral part of the new digital market and should ensure the development of innovative and competitive business models. it is estimated that the volume of data is growing at an unprecedented rate and by 2020 there will be 16 trillion gigabytes of data, which is a growth rate of 236 per cent per year in data creation. decision-making based on knowledge gained from big data systems can result in significant increases in productivity and competitiveness, and the benefits of these systems will contribute to an additional annual gdp growth of 1,9% by 2020. according to idc (international data corporation), the growth rate of the big data market could result in the creation of 3,75 million new jobs by 2017, which is extremely important given the economic climate prevailing in europe. for this reason, i support the resolution on the data-driven growth economy in view of its positive impact on society and all types of businesses at national and european level. the data-driven economy will stimulate research and innovation, leading to greater business opportunities and increased access to knowledge and capital, especially for smes across the eu.
written. i support the motion for a resolution tabled by mr buzek and i support it fully. i believe that the data-driven economy is one of the key factors for the future economic development of the union and can make a significant contribution to job creation, but good legal frameworks need to be created first. i welcome the proposals on the free movement of data and the legislative initiatives aimed at removing obstacles to the completion of the single market. i would remind you that the development of the data-driven economy continues to face a number of obstacles both at european and member state level. the existing legal frameworks are not conducive to the development of a data-driven economy, and the lack of interoperability and unnecessary administrative barriers, as stated in the report, have led to many good business opportunities being either lost or realised outside europe. i therefore hope that this resolution will also contribute to the speedy amendment of the existing legal framework and to the creation of a favourable climate for the development of a data-based economy.
‒ idc (international data corporation) predicted in its big data technologies and services forecast that the growth rate of the big data market will be six times higher than the overall ict market from 2013 to 2017 and will amount to a total of eur 50 billion, which could result in the creation of 3.75 million new jobs by 2017, according to the big data value public-private partnership. the development of big data systems is an integral part of the new digital market and should ensure the development of innovative and competitive business models in line with the eu data protection framework, as big data can entail significant risks and challenges, in particular with regard to fundamental rights (including privacy and data protection), and can also cause unfair discrimination due to biased conclusions drawn on the basis of correlation rather than causation. as big data systems open up new opportunities for consumers (in terms of convenience, efficiency and savings), businesses (industry 4.0) and governments (e-government), and also for housing (smart cities), science, medicine (m-health), disaster response and crime prevention, i supported the report.
written. ‒ a key element of the digital single market strategy is the creation of a data-driven economy with great potential to contribute to the development of europe's competitiveness in technologically advanced sectors and to a rapid economic recovery. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market and the digital single market in the union, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital single market is fully operational and that the union's digital single market is fully integrated into the union's digital single market. furthermore, we must not allow insufficient investment and technical standardisation and data protection legislation to undermine europe's technological and economic progress in developing a data-driven economy. i support the motions for resolutions on communication 'towards a growing data-driven economy' because i believe that a data-driven economy is of paramount importance and will create many jobs in the future that will require advanced skills. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in eritrea, as it is a country with major problems: according to the undp human development report 2014 eritrea is ranked 182 out of 187 countries in the 2014 human development index, according to the world bank's latest poverty estimate from 2003, 65 percent of the population lives below the poverty line, human rights are violated daily and no progress has been made in recent years, eritrea is one of the countries with the highest number of refugees and the third in the world (after syria and afghanistan) in the number of people making the dangerous journey to europe. in this regard, special attention should be paid to unaccompanied children who are victims of trafficking in human beings. eur 200 million over the next six years from the 11th european development fund is needed for the national indicative programme to stimulate poverty reduction and socio-economic development and to tackle the economic and political causes of migration, but with clear transparency and good governance in terms of public finances, and guaranteeing democratic reforms and respect for human rights. the council should ensure that the funds allocated are not misused by the eritrean government but used for the needs of the eritrean people.
written. ‒ eritrea became independent in 1993 and was expected to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. the un report in 2015 unfortunately highlights the complicity of the eritrean authorities in systematic and widespread human rights violations. the number of eritrean refugees arriving each month is growing, and all this is accompanied by cases of human trafficking. the resolution calls on the eritrean authorities to respect human rights, release all political prisoners and journalists and ensure food supplies to all parts of eritrea, which is why i supported the motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ i support this report and welcome the fact that the situation in this distant country is being monitored. but we all know that it is not enough to talk about and enumerate the many problems that are part of the life of the population there and that cause about five thousand people to leave the country every month, many of them trying to avoid military service, which is in reality forced labor and from which even girls are not exempt. reporters without borders last year ranked eritrea as the worst country in the world for press freedom, worse even than north korea. the population of eritrea is subject to various forms of violence and discrimination, including on the basis of religion. we must continue to insist on respect for human rights, eradicating poverty and encouraging investment in energy policy, because many rural parts of the country still do not even have electricity. the eu and its member states are committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un convention on the rights of the child, and to the implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child.
written. ‒ eritrean civilians are being detained or arrested for numerous unjustified reasons, a huge number of eritrean residents are fleeing fear and oppression, five thousand new refugees a month, making up the third largest group of refugees moving to europe. in eritrea, there is no real public space in which civil society organisations can operate freely. i urge the eritrean government to implement urgent reforms, stressing that the right to leave the country is enshrined in international human rights law. i call on the government to allow freedom of movement and stop collecting "diaspora tax" from eritreans living abroad. i regret the increased risk of sexual and domestic violence for women, especially for women in the military or in detention. i condemn the indirect involvement of foreign companies and their participation in the use of forced labour in eritrea and demand greater accountability and assessment of their operations in eritrea, with due diligence and reporting initiatives.
written. i welcome and fully support the motion for a resolution on eritrea. the human rights situation in eritrea is particularly worrying and i am convinced that it requires greater engagement by the european union. for more than two decades, eritrea has been ruled by an authoritarian regime that has systematically violated human rights on a scale almost unprecedented. the large number of political prisoners, the torture and abduction of opponents of the regime, and the persecution of members of religious minorities demand the strongest condemnation from the european union. i would like to stress in particular the fact that, because of the extremely unfavourable economic situation and the lack of respect for human rights, about five thousand eritrean citizens leave eritrea each month to seek international protection in european countries, many of whom become victims of human trafficking or even lose their lives on the way. the violation of human rights is incompatible with the democratic principles on which the european union is founded and i therefore call on the commission to put more pressure on the eritrean authorities to put an end to the systematic violation of human rights in that country.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the european union is founded on a strong commitment to promoting and protecting human rights, democracy and the rule of law throughout the world, and these principles are woven into the eu's founding treaties. the un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in eritrea identifies three main areas of concern: the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to adequate housing. human trafficking and trafficking and the growing number of unaccompanied minors are among the more than 5,000 people who flee the country every month. i call on the eritrean authorities to release all political prisoners, to reform and shorten the duration of military service, to stop all forced evictions and demolitions of buildings, and to involve more people in the process of social housing. it is important that eritrea respects and implements the right to education without coercion, which is the reason why so many young eritreans are fleeing the country. i therefore call for respect for international human rights norms and standards relating to refugees and hold that eritrean refugees fleeing human rights violations should be afforded international protection.
written. ‒ in eritrea, there are still very worrying underlying problems that contribute to the already chaotic state of affairs in the country. the situation in eritrea is serious because the citizens of the country are suffering and this is contributing to instability in the region. the european union fully supports and promotes the protection of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the world and ensures that respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms are accessible beyond the borders of the eu. unfortunately, as the un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in eritrea has pointed out, problems are arising in the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to adequate housing, and there is an increasing smuggling, trafficking and number of unaccompanied minors among those who are fleeing the country on a daily basis. the government of eritrea is itself the perpetrator of systematic, widespread and serious violations of fundamental human rights for which it must be held accountable. i support the motion for a resolution on the situation in eritrea because i believe that the rights and freedoms of the individual must be guaranteed to every citizen, and in eritrea there are cases of serious violations of these rights, some of which may be classified as crimes against humanity.
written. ‒ eritrea is a country that won its independence in 1993 after 30 years of guerrilla warfare, but democracy was never implemented, and conflicts with neighbours, primarily ethiopia, have led to a major economic and social crisis, making it one of the poorest countries in the world today, and one of the most repressive regimes in the world with systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in this country in the horn of africa, which has been under the strict and repressive regime of isaias afwerki for more than 20 years, the population is arbitrarily arrested, tortured, and killed, often on religious grounds. a people living below the poverty line are in fear of unlimited military conscription and forced labor, constant psychological and physical abuse, which leads to four thousand eritreans leaving their country every month to save their lives and the lives of their loved ones. after syria, eritrea is the second largest source of migrants risking their lives to cross the mediterranean and reach the shores of europe, often on deadly routes, exposed to the constant threat of human trafficking. any violation of human rights anywhere in the world is a problem for the european union, which cannot and must not turn a blind eye to this burning problem. that's why i voted for this resolution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as the eu accession negotiation process should be a major impetus for reforms, especially when it comes to the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. i agree with the statements in the adopted resolution welcoming the agreement of the four main political forces of 2 june and 15 july 2015, calling on political parties to assume responsibility towards citizens, calling on all parties to put the interests of the country above party interests, and highlighting the need to prepare the elections according to the highest international standards. the key role of the parliament in the democratic development of the country is emphasised, and concerns are expressed that the macedonian public administration remains subject to political influence. the report highlights concerns about widespread corruption, particularly in state and local government, public procurement and the financing of political parties, and welcomes the strengthening of the capacity of the police and the public prosecutor's office in the fight against organised crime. it also acknowledges the contribution to efforts to combat islamic radicalism and notes that coexistence between ethnic groups remains fragile.
written. ‒ macedonia has a lot of work ahead of it in terms of promoting the rule of law, reforming the judiciary, fighting corruption, media freedom, but other countries have done much better in the negotiation process. i supported this parliament report which clearly shows that macedonia is ready for negotiations, so it is important to start them as soon as possible.
written. ‒ macedonia has fulfilled all the conditions for opening negotiations with the eu. of all the candidate countries, the candidate country has made the greatest effort to adapt its legislation to the acquis. macedonia is among the five european countries with the highest economic growth. its role in the migration crisis is an indication that macedonia is guarding the eu's external borders. further delays in the opening of negotiations can only deepen the political crisis in which macedonia finds itself due to the opposition's demand for early elections, which were then again postponed due to the opposition's demand. the mediation of eu representatives in that crisis has not been successful, and with the inconsistent eu policy towards macedonia, the eu loses credibility because it sets discriminatory standards that are contrary to already established and adopted rules. i would like to point out that it is important for the political stability and security of this part of europe that macedonia join the nato alliance as soon as possible. i therefore call on all eu member states that are also nato members to support macedonia's entry into this alliance. the open bilateral issues that other countries have with macedonia must not be an obstacle on macedonia's path to euro-atlantic integration. in this context, i also call on greece to engage in dialogue with macedonia in the spirit of european values and principles and to stop blocking its european path.
written. ‒ the republic of macedonia has been a candidate country for eu membership for ten years, and is still considered one of the candidates that has made the most progress in aligning its legislation with the acquis. the commission, with the support of parliament, has repeatedly called for the opening of accession negotiations and has stressed the importance of negotiations as a key driver of the necessary reform process. maintaining the status quo would only increase the problems facing the country, but the real danger is that they become chronic or even spill over into its borders. the eu can prevent such scenarios if member states finally give skopje sincere support to continue on the path that has been blocked for too long. the same effort is needed to overcome the refugee crisis in which macedonia is one of the most vulnerable countries. macedonia is a geographically small, multi-ethnic country, but burdened by serious internal divisions in a turbulent geopolitical environment. issues such as allegations of illegal wiretapping of thousands of citizens, threats to journalists, widespread corruption, and the often intertwined activities of parties and the state have resulted in deep divisions in society and a lack of political dialogue. therefore, delaying agreed reforms, despite formal political consensus, would further deepen mistrust and delay the european perspective. in conclusion, i stress the need to prepare for the elections according to the highest international standards, including the guarantee of free and fair electoral procedures.
written. ‒ i supported the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because it comprehensively describes the political and social developments in the country, while at the same time emphasising the need to improve professionalism, neutrality and independence at all levels of public administration. the report calls for accountability of both the government and the opposition and for ensuring sustainable political dialogue and cooperation, which are important for the democratic development of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the involvement of ngos is very important in this process, and freedom of the media and of expression are among the fundamental values of the european union. i also believe that it is important to achieve energy objectives alongside democratic objectives, in particular those relating to energy efficiency and the modernisation of public transport with neighbouring countries for which initial plans have been presented.
written. ‒ macedonia has been a candidate country for eu membership for ten years and is considered one of the candidates that has made the most progress in aligning its legislation with the acquis. public opinion polls show that eu membership has considerable public support. the commission, with the support of parliament, has repeatedly called for the opening of accession negotiations and stressed the importance of negotiations as a key driver of the necessary reform process. i welcome the commitment of the leaders of the main political parties in the agreement of 2 june 2015 to work on strengthening good neighbourly relations as a key element in bringing the country closer to the european union. i also consider the increase in gdp of 3,9% in real terms in the first quarter of 2015 to be important, but i am concerned about the still high unemployment rate of 27,4% and the low participation of women and young people in the labour market. i would stress the importance of freedom and independence of the media and professionalism and impartiality in public administration as one of the fundamental values of the eu and the foundation of any democracy. negotiations with the european union can only contribute to efforts to resolve bilateral disputes, while initiating and promoting much-needed reforms, in particular on the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, as well as ensuring the credibility of the eu's enlargement policy.
written. ‒ the prospects for eu membership are a major impetus for reforms in macedonia, especially in the areas of the rule of law, judicial independence and the fight against corruption. corruption is a serious problem in macedonia, present in state and local government. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement. bilateral issues should not be used to hamper the eu accession process. more transparency is needed in macedonian institutions as well as greater freedom of the media. urgent media reform is needed to ensure an independent regulatory body and objective and professional reporting. parliament in the country has a key role to play in democratic development and political dialogue needs to be established. the government of the republic of moldova has also committed to the implementation of the un guidelines on the status of women, which are based on the un declaration on the status of women, and the un guidelines on the status of women, which are based on the un declaration on the status of women. the macedonian contribution to regional efforts to combat radical islamism should be commended. i support this report because i believe that the measures set out in this report are a good guideline for further bringing macedonia closer to the european union. i also believe that macedonia's membership of euro-atlantic organisations should be supported as this will contribute to increasing security in the region.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as i believe that a certain level of preparedness has been achieved in the fight against corruption, organised crime and that the macedonian legal framework for the protection of human rights is in line with european standards. i also believe that macedonia enjoys a stable macroeconomic environment, maintains good relations with the other candidate countries and plays an active role in regional cooperation. on the other hand, macedonia's european path is quite thorny and burdened with numerous internal and external weaknesses and we must be at the same time strict and fair towards the macedonian candidacy. however, i believe that macedonia is paying a heavy price because of its political position and i believe that the european commission should act as an honest and true partner in this case and provide it with appropriate support.
written. ‒ i supported the 2015 progress report on montenegro, as the resolution notes the importance of further negotiations with 22 negotiating chapters open so far, calls for greater parliamentary oversight of the accession process, highlights concerns about divisions in society and boycotts of parliamentary work, further welcomes the significant progress in strengthening the legislative framework to achieve greater independence, accountability and professionalism of the judiciary and the progress made in the reform of the public administration from 2011 to 2016. the report notes that the montenegrin police have increased controls across the country to prevent possible terrorist attacks and recruitment of montenegrin citizens into jihadist organisations. macroeconomic stability and favorable economic developments are praised, even though a large number of people still live in relative poverty. there are concerns about media freedom in montenegro, which is only ranked 114th in terms of press freedom according to the annual reporters without borders press freedom index. the decision by nato to invite montenegro to join and to encourage a swift and effective process of accession negotiations is particularly important. the resolution welcomes the amicable settlement of border issues and calls for the acceleration of the settlement of outstanding issues with neighbouring countries.
written. ‒ the eu accession process is much more than negotiations. it is about democratizing society and embracing the values of partnership, competitiveness, an open single market, common european policies. i am therefore pleased that the establishment of a favourable business environment, which means an efficient judiciary and a fast and simple public administration, is particularly highlighted. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, which has not been consulted by the commission. i supported this report, but it is important to increase technical assistance to help montenegro with all the changes that lie ahead. in the process of eu accession, it is important to resolve outstanding issues with neighbouring eu member states, and for croatia it is important to resolve the border in prelaska, the succession of property and compensation for the victims of the montenegrin camps.
written. ‒ bringing montenegro closer to the european union and nato is an important step not only for the stabilisation of the country but also for peace and security in this part of europe. in this context, i welcome the efforts of the montenegrin authorities to make their country a full member of the union. but above all, i believe that this country must show better results in the area of freedom and independence of the media, the fight against corruption and organized crime, and better cooperation between civil society and state authorities. i also call on the montenegrin authorities to work in the spirit of european values to improve the position of national minorities, especially the rights of the croatian minority, which is one of the main features of any democratic society, and to resolve remaining issues such as the unresolved border with croatia, the issue of the prevlak peninsula, the prosecution of war crimes, but also ensuring fair compensation for the victims of the montenegrin camps.
written. ‒ further progress has been made in the accession negotiations with montenegro, two more negotiating chapters have been opened, we can conclude that montenegro is the most advanced country in the enlargement process in terms of the negotiating process. there are problems of corruption, organised crime and threats to freedom of expression, and measures are needed to combat unemployment, social discrimination and poverty and to strengthen workers' and trade union rights in line with eu standards. the eu has also provided a comprehensive framework for the implementation of the eu acquis on the fight against corruption. i welcome the progress of accession negotiations with montenegro, and the significant progress in strengthening the legislative framework to achieve greater independence, accountability and professionalism of the judiciary. i also welcome the proactive participation and constructive role of montenegro in regional and international cooperation, including in the regional reconciliation process, and its contribution to crisis management operations under the common security and defence policy. i support and welcome nato's decision to invite montenegro to join and encourage a swift and effective process of accession negotiations. despite the greatest progress of all the candidate countries towards eu membership, montenegro faces a period in which it will have to address many internal open issues of adaptation to european standards. but equally, if not more important, is to establish and maintain an open dialogue with the host public about the cost of reform.
written. ‒ i supported the 2015 report on montenegro, as the country's foreign policy priorities were also joining the european union and joining nato. in 2015, montenegro strengthened its overall anti-corruption framework in addition to its external policy objectives by establishing a code of ethics in the parliament of montenegro and enabled greater involvement of civil society organisations in public policy-making. the current political crisis in montenegro should not be an obstacle to eu or nato accession, as the report shows that montenegro has continued to implement its international commitments and obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement (saa), while at the same time emerging as a constructive partner in the region. the development of a functioning market economy remained a priority for the establishment of macroeconomic stability in montenegro, as well as the reduction of unemployment. the future stages of the negotiations will require montenegro to develop stronger administrative capacities to effectively enforce eu legislation, as well as to emphasise the importance of freedom of speech and expression and media freedom.
written. ‒ further progress has been made in the accession negotiations with montenegro and two further negotiating chapters, namely on transport and energy, were opened at the intergovernmental conference in brussels on 21 december 2015, with montenegro being the most advanced country in the enlargement process in terms of the negotiating process. i would stress the importance of strengthening the sme sector and providing support through better legislation, financing, implementation of industrial policy and reduction of the informal economy and acceleration of electronic registration of companies across the country. i would like to commend the macroeconomic stability and favourable economic developments supported by the world bank's 2016 conditions of business report, which measures the ease of doing business index in a country where montenegro is 46th in the world. i also call on the government to further strengthen human rights institutions, such as the ombudsman and the ministry for human and minority rights, and to allocate adequate resources to implement respect for human rights and minority rights, including the rights of the croatian minority. i would stress the importance of media freedom and pluralism, and freedom of expression in a broader sense, as one of the key values of the eu and a cornerstone of any democracy. i welcome the decision of nato to extend to montenegro an invitation to join and an accession negotiation process with which montenegro should proceed with security sector reform.
written. ‒ montenegro must continue to deliver good results in the area of the rule of law, which is a fundamental precondition for accession to the union. however, the country faces a serious problem of corruption and organized crime. further steps are needed to combat unemployment and poverty. the role of the montenegrin parliament should also be strengthened and the adoption of the code of ethics is a good step in this direction, but additional measures are needed to increase public confidence in the montenegrin parliament. the eu has also committed to the implementation of the un charter on the rights of persons with disabilities. the reforms of the security sector implemented by montenegro and the participation in the eu-led csdp missions are also commendable. progress has been made on the border problems with bosnia and herzegovina, but there is a need to resolve the remaining border problems, including those with croatia. i support this report because i believe that montenegro has made progress on its path towards the european union. there is still a lot of work to be done to bring this process to a conclusion, but montenegro needs to be supported because i believe that membership of that country in nato and the eu is crucial for the security of the region.
written. ‒ i support this report on the banking union annual report 2015. the final compromise reached in the economic and monetary policy committee (econ) includes key priorities regarding the need to support the first achievements of the ssm to complete the single mechanism through a common fiscal lock-in. i also support the achievement of avoiding any reference to sovereign insolvency proceedings or any change in the sovereign treatment of debt as a prerequisite for achieving the achievement of banking union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the banking union report annual report 2015, as the banking union is an integral part of monetary union and a fundamental element of the eu's economic and monetary union, and is necessary for the stability of confidence in euro area banks, strengthening financial integration, reducing risk and moral hazard and contributing to promoting risk sharing within monetary union. the banking union has an important role to play in financing investment and stimulating economic growth. i support the establishment of the three pillars of the banking union and in this respect i support the results achieved in establishing a single supervisory mechanism which has proven successful both from an operational point of view and in terms of the quality of supervision; the results achieved in establishing a single resolution board and the establishment of national resolution authorities in the member states. a successful banking union should also have the ability to provide a high and uniform level of deposit protection where a deposit insurance scheme financed by contributions from the financial sector is one of the proven ways to avoid bailing out banks with taxpayers' money.
written. ‒ the establishment of the banking union, i.e. the first and second pillars, and the single rulebook, has contributed to the stability of the financial system in the european union. european banks are now much more stable and resilient than they were before the crisis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we need to restore our citizens' trust in the banking system and protect their assets. the taxpayers can't bear the burden of failing banks. although more stable, banks are still burdened with high levels of non-performing loans, making it difficult to borrow. and it is financing the economy, more investment, that the european union needs most at this moment. the completion of the banking union and measures to reduce the risks still present will precisely allow for greater lending to the economy. more favourable and more uniform financing of the economy across the european union is the basis for the functioning of the single market. without equal access to sources of funding, there is no open and fair competition. the banking union is important to stimulate growth and new jobs and i supported the report of the representative of the gualtieri.
written. ‒ the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism have proven successful, but we need to continue to work on their improvement. the high-quality recruitment process, the compilation of the supervisory manuals, the establishment of the it infrastructure and the establishment of joint supervisory teams have significantly improved the operational structure of the ssm, which should be welcomed. i think it is absolutely necessary to remove the unnecessary administrative burden. the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs noted that the structural reform of banks had yet to be implemented and that a level playing field in the insurance sector was important. i believe that special attention should be paid to the off-balance sheet items of banks, i.e. their supervision, and caution is needed in relation to the development of the benchmark banking sector. i join the calls on the commission to use regulations instead of directives to ensure the harmonised implementation of the single supervisory mechanism across the eu. it is necessary to establish effective cooperation between the single resolution board and the national resolution authorities within the single resolution mechanism. i also support calls for the development of recovery plans for systemically important institutions, a uniform level of deposit protection, and a view that those who take the risk for them should also be held accountable.
written. ‒ the banking union is a necessary component of monetary union and a fundamental element of genuine economic and monetary union. the banking union has a key role to play in financing investment and, accordingly, in stimulating growth and job creation across the european union. the need for a single supervisory mechanism is apparent in order to promote a level of protection of deposits. i therefore welcome the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism, a single resolution board and the establishment of national resolution authorities in the member states, which have been a remarkable success. i believe that further progress should be made, despite the exceptional degree of efficiency achieved by the joint supervisory teams, in particular to involve the national competent authorities more effectively in the decision-making process. the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism represent a step forward towards a common market for banking services, making cross-border consolidation more attractive.
written. i welcome this report and support it fully. economic growth within the banking union is still not strong enough and in this regard i particularly welcome the rapporteur's recommendation to the commission to encourage the removal of unnecessary administrative obstacles at both european and national level, which are primarily hampering the development of small banks. i also support the call for reform of the supervisory and regulatory framework of the financial sector as an important factor in restoring investor confidence, which can ultimately boost economic growth and financial stability. i agree with the report that it is crucial for financial recovery that member states also fully implement the bank recovery and resolution directive which, among other things, establishes the principles that failed banks should not be rescued with taxpayers' money, but that losses must first be covered by shareholders and creditors.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ a banking union is necessary to restore stability and confidence in euro area banks, strengthen financial integration, reduce risk in the european banking system and moral hazard, and contribute to the disconnection between governments and banks and to promote risk sharing within monetary union. the banking union has a key role to play in financing investment and, accordingly, in stimulating growth and job creation across the eu. in addition to uniform rules, the banking union should have a single supervisory mechanism, a single resolution mechanism, a high and uniform level of deposit protection and effective fiscal protection at eu level. a successful banking union with a single supervisory mechanism and a single resolution mechanism should also have the ability to provide a high and uniform level of protection for deposits, irrespective of their location, in order to contribute to a real break in the vicious circle between governments and banks, to restoring savers' confidence, to creating a level playing field and to strengthening financial stability. i also believe that in any deposit protection system, the emergence of any moral hazard must always be avoided and those who take the risk must be held accountable. the functional deposit insurance system financed by contributions from the financial sector is one of the proven ways to avoid bailouts of banks with taxpayers' money and therefore supported the report itself.
written. ‒ banking union is a fundamental element of economic and monetary union, necessary for stability and confidence in banks in the european union. in addition to the single banking union regulation, a single supervisory mechanism (ssm), a single resolution mechanism (srm) and a common deposit insurance scheme (cds) have been established to ensure effective fiscal protection at the level of the european union. the first pillar of the ssm banking union aims to ensure a uniform supervision of eu banks, to contribute to the security and stability of credit institutions and the financial system, and to establish a level playing field in the banking market. the second pillar of the srm guarantees a joint decision-making process for the resolution of failing banks. the third pillar is currently working on harmonising national deposit insurance schemes and may over time guarantee the same level of protection for all deposits in the eu, regardless of location. to avoid new cases of large-scale bank bailouts, to restore investor confidence and to support growth and financial stability, we need to aim for higher and better quality bank capital and a stabilised supervisory and regulatory framework. i welcome the annual report on the banking union, and in particular the establishment of the ssm, which has proved to be a highly successful operation from an operational point of view. in view of the short timeframe for establishment and the complexity of the project, i fully support the report and look forward to the future successes of the banking union.
written. ‒ as a necessary component of monetary union and a fundamental element of genuine economic and monetary union, the banking union has a key role to play in financing investment and, accordingly, in stimulating growth and job creation across the eu, which is why this report is so important as it addresses the pressing issues of all eu member states. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. the planned community-wide approach to risk insurance will reduce the level of protection in some countries while benefiting others. the result is a reallocation that does not contribute to the collateralisation of the deposit. fortunately, the economic recovery is under way, but it is still quite weak due to the lack of structural reforms, convergence and investment, and over-dependence on external factors. the report gives an overly optimistic picture of the single supervisory mechanism, as it will take a long time for supervision to become effective. the fact that the supervisory system is already such that the burning problems of undercapitalisation of individual credit institutions or even entire national banking systems can be identified has nothing to do with the real situation, and i therefore abstained.
mr. president, we need a short-term and a long-term solution. the short-term solution should be one that will diversify our product in a way that we can win new markets, and especially the chinese market. we're in a position to win the chinese market and i propose that we have a one-off subsidy for pork producers and that mr. hogan "fly" around, so to speak, on this planet of ours and that a short-term solution resolves this situation. it will also be partly a long-term solution, because we will have a diversification of the market, and on the other hand one day the russian market will come back. what i want to call for in particular is that an inspection be carried out in croatia as soon as possible to ensure that there are no more traces of swine fever in croatia, because croatian pigmeat production has the potential for large exports and i ask the commission to do so as soon as possible.
mr president, i express my full support for the committee on agriculture which has put this question, because farmers in the eu, pig producers, are in crisis, and the question is whether this crisis will possibly be worse in the future. the commission is planning to open up warehouses and market frozen meat in the summer, and the question is whether that will be the most favourable time to do so. i stress the importance of the part of the question that will help to ensure that the funds intended for farmers really get into their hands and i call on the commission to strengthen the programmes to help private storage, because the lack of private storage makes farmers particularly vulnerable, exposed to blackmail and manipulation by traders, which is not only the case in meat production. in croatia, fruit producers are particularly exposed in this respect. finally, i welcome the suggestions of my colleagues that the european commission should try to increase the european market and introduce more measures of production standards in the countries from which the eu imports meat.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. thank you very much, and thank you for pointing out why my friend and colleague phil hogan can't be here today. but i can assure you, and i can assure you on behalf of the whole commission, that we take the market situation in the agricultural sector very seriously. the council of agriculture ministers will be discussing market issues at the top of the agenda as early as next monday. commissioner hogan will give a special opinion on the situation in the animal production sector. the member states and this house have set a clear legal framework with the common organization of agricultural markets. it provides for a safety net, and the commission is making use of it. a strong rural area requires economically stable farms and it is in everyone's interest to support them even in difficult economic times. however, we must not forget that the cap has been transformed into a market-oriented agricultural policy, as we all wanted, through a series of reforms. the european parliament has always supported this development. agriculture that produces without the market is not socially acceptable. market orientation also means that market forces are at work and influence production structures. this is a logical process which, although particularly evident in times of crisis, is continuous under normal conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will make responsible use of the margin of manoeuvre which parliament and the council have given it, be it for pigmeat, milk or any other agricultural product, to deal with difficult market situations in the interests of a viable and competitive common agricultural policy. since i have been asked by some speakers to refer to my own dossier, i can tell you that the question of the situation in eastern ukraine and the consequences of that situation is being raised again and again, especially by representatives of this house, who have also spoken very strongly today. we are very confident that a positive solution will soon be found. i'm very optimistic about that. i hope that this optimism does not overwhelm me, and if it does, then new situations will arise which should obviously have a positive impact on agriculture too.
written. i welcome the question from the committee on agriculture to the commission on the problem faced by pig farmers due to the crisis in the pigmeat market. the efforts made by the commission to date to address this problem have unfortunately not proved to be sufficient and adequate. aid for private storage only delays the solution of the problem, does not stabilise the market but rather opens it up to speculators, and ultimately producers suffer from an additional fall in the price of agricultural products sold directly from farms. the commission also notes that the average price of pigmeat in the union market was around eur 10 per kilogram of pigmeat per year in the first five months of 2014. croatia's production has not recovered, while meat imports have continued. we also had the experience of importing frozen pork, even from eu member states, which was defrosted and then refrozen, which i have spoken about many times and which is why i am in favour of marking the full production cycle of the meat, including the date of slaughter. the eu market is oversaturated with pork, as with many other agricultural products, and i see an increase in the export rate to other markets, which is currently 13%, as the only solution that must help stabilise the eu's internal market.
i am very grateful for this report, because when i was responsible for implementing european legislation in the czech republic in government proposals, i have to say that a whole series of proposals that came in, or that is to say already approved directives, that came to the national states, and therefore also to the czech republic, lacked a factual justification for the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. this justification was often very formal, as is shown by the studies and analyses we are discussing here today, where the impact assessment committee clearly stated that only one third of the proposals submitted by the commission contained a purely formal justification for subsidiarity. if today's debate and the adoption of the document, madam commissioner, leads to the commission actually assessing these two principles, these two criteria of european legislation, very carefully, i would be happy to do so. i think it is necessary, also in view of the political situation in which the european union finds itself, and i think it is in the interest of all of us who believe in preserving the idea of european integration, that the opinions of the national parliaments in particular should be taken into account. and if some material gets a so-called yellow card, then i think the commission should abandon such material. this also applies to the principle of the european public prosecutor, which you represent here, and which received a yellow card in 2013.
mr president, all politics are local, all politics are local, because all politics, including the one we have here and what we pass as regulations, have reflections and consequences at the local level, that is, on our citizens who live in a municipality, in a city, in a region. that is why all politics is local and why the principle of subsidiarity is for me a very important principle in order to make the european union more easily recognisable among our citizens, because we cannot escape the fact that we have problems with the identity of european politics. of course, not all politics can be conducted at the local level alone, that is perfectly clear. we need to have a lot of things at european level, but we need to be able to translate european policy into local policy in a simple way. then we will have success. otherwise, success will definitely be lacking.
mr. president, the international agency for research on cancer has classified glyphosate as a possible carcinogen. a meta-analysis of epidemiological studies of workers who used herbicides in their work showed an increased risk of b-cell lymphoma. multinational companies, on the other hand, downplay the health risks of glyphosate because they want to continue to sell gmos that are the only competitor to the application of this herbicide. i believe that the decision to extend the authorisation of glyphosate should be taken in accordance with the precautionary principle. breach of that principle infringes the right of citizens, in this case farmers, to a healthy life in a healthy environment as well as their safety at work. after consulting experts, and considering that a more detailed analysis of the effects of glyphosate on human health can be made within a year, and aware of the extent of the use of glyphosate as an active substance in agriculture, i propose that this proposal from the european commission be rejected.
mr president, we are all fully aware that the european union is over-bureaucratized. the vice-president of the european commission, mr timmermans, has spoken about this here in parliament, and not just once. however, what we are really doing to simplify procedures and to make our legislation really clearer to the citizens, and especially to those who are in some way the customers of the european union, and i am thinking above all of the many small and mediumsized enterprises. i would like to stress in particular, among other things, the problem of the complexity of using the various sources of funding from the european union. there's a whole forest of regulations that we kind of need, because we have to have rules. but this jungle of regulations is simply impassable for many who really need financial help from the european union. in this context, i too call for simplification of the rules.
mr president, the single market represents the greatest benefit of european integration for all member states. it is quite normal today for everyone to trade with everyone and to recognise and invest in cross-border business opportunities. as long as that's the case, there's no fear for europe. to continue to thrive in the future from the single market, we need to extend it to all types of services and protect it from bad practices and over-regulation. the lack of and unnecessary laws and regulations on the one hand, and the slow and poor implementation of quality regulation on the other, hurt smes, which employ more than 80% of the private sector workforce, the most. if we do not want to seriously damage europe's socioeconomic image in the future, better regulation of the single market, which will reduce administrative burdens and provide more opportunities for smes, must be our absolute priority.
madam president, erasmus+ is an important programme because it allows citizens looking for new knowledge and skills and business opportunities to gain valuable experience in other environments. learning about different educational models and business habits and cultural specificities, with the indispensable learning of foreign languages, makes a significant contribution to competitiveness in the single market and to the development of new creative ideas that are not limited to a narrow local or regional market. i agree that this programme should be made more accessible and simplify the application procedures, as well as improve compatibility between different vocational education and training systems. on the other hand, i think it is completely unnecessary to burden this programme, which is equally important for all europeans who are eager to learn, with ideological recommendations, as the rapporteur does in those parts where he promotes positive discrimination against various minority communities and promotes an artificially created european identity.
madam president, i would like to point out that erasmus+ is one of the great programmes that the european union has, despite what we have heard that there are a number of difficulties in some parts of the implementation of this programme. how much it has helped young people, how much it has helped those individuals who have acquired new knowledge and new skills, it doesn't need to be emphasized. what i want to emphasize is that we need more compatibility between our programs, we need more mobility of those who give knowledge to young people, first of all means teachers, and this detail should be incorporated. but on the other hand, unlike my colleague who was just speaking, i actually think that this part of the programme that talks about minorities in europe is very important for building what european identity means, for strengthening european identity, because european identity exists whether you like it or not.
written. erasmus+ is a new education and training programme aimed at reducing early school leaving and increasing the number of people with higher education. the mobility programme offers individuals the opportunity to study and train abroad. mobility is very popular among young people these days. it is supported by all eu institutions because its positive impact on the development of young people learning about tolerance, other cultures and customs is recognised. mobility increases the social inclusion of young people in society and promotes active citizenship. one of the objectives of mobility is to reduce the number of unemployed young people. experience abroad has shown that young people are more likely to find employment and to establish contacts with employers. however, mobility is not prevalent in vocational education and training, mainly due to the lack of coordination between higher education institutions that implement mobility programmes. the eu-level is crucial to enable better coordination and organisation of mobility programmes. furthermore, it is necessary to recognise and validate the results of mobility programmes achieved by young people through formal and non-formal learning. these are the language and other skills that young people acquire abroad. i think we should continue funding and increase the amount of support for mobility programmes. this would allow for more people to participate in mobility programmes. the national, regional and local levels should certainly do a better job of promoting and supporting mobility.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like first of all to congratulate ms sylvie goulard for taking the initiative to present this report. last october the commission released a communication aiming at a more unified external representation of our economic and monetary union in international financial institutions. we can no longer accept that the euro area, which has the second largest currency in the world and which represents one of the world’s key market actors and economic powerhouses, does not speak with one voice on economic and financial matters in international financial institutions. this especially holds for the international monetary fund. the international monetary fund is a key pillar of the international monetary system in charge of global crisis prevention and crisis response. it is of strong relevance for the euro area. a more unified representation will allow the euro area to effectively shape its future role in the global financial architecture and more effectively promote euro area interests at a global level. our proposal consists of two elements: streamlining euro area representation in the short term and moving to a unified representation by the year 2025. we are aware that the road ahead is not easy. we are currently discussing the proposals with the member states. the decision-making process will take some time: agreement is not imminent, but we believe that an agreement can be reached. we welcome an early discussion with parliament on this important subject and we take note of your recommendations. we appreciate that the report stresses the need for a stronger european voice. as regards international standard-setting bodies for financial regulation, the situation is very diverse from the financial stability board to the basel committee and others. each body has its own particular governance arrangements, and the extent to which the eu is represented varies – often with only certain member states represented. we agree with parliament that the european position should be better coordinated, as we all understand that when we are united we are stronger on the international scene, and we set out in our october communication what the commission will do to get there. the commission also takes note of the proposals in the report to involve european supervisory authorities more in international fora. a core interest of the european parliament is to be more involved in discussions leading up to the development of new international rules concerning the financial sector. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the commission has been steadily building up strong relations with the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ). this work is not finished, and we stand ready to provide timely updates on salient developments in international financial regulation. to conclude, a point on the g20: we should bear in mind that the g20 is an informal forum where leaders make commitments to address global challenges, putting their personal credibility at stake. it does not adopt binding decisions or replace regular decision-making processes.
the reporter. madam president, commissioner vella, ladies and gentlemen, the slogan of this community of ours is 'united in diversity'. but the rules have so far been more or less universal and have not recognised this highlighted diversity, and the specific provisions of the common fisheries policy and the mediterranean regulation concerning small-scale coastal fishing are the best example of this. the mediterranean and the north sea have been one and the same for the legislature and the bureaucracy, and the result of this approach is a legislative framework that stifles the development of fishing communities in both the south and the north of the continent. the first step in building the new framework is to adopt a definition of coastal, small-scale and traditional fisheries at eu level, while respecting the specificities of the different fishing regions. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the fisheries sector, in particular by examining the impact of the measures taken on the fisheries sector. we believe that the possibility of small-scale coastal fishing in island communities that traditionally depend on fishing for their livelihoods and engage in fishing activities throughout the year should be reviewed. such a decision would be fully in line with the new initiative for islands, which aims to develop comprehensive solutions to the problems of economic and demographic decline of islands and the preservation of island communities. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the measures taken to ensure that the union's fishing fleet is able to comply with the rules on the conservation of fishery resources. the traditional fisheries are an important segment of the cultural and historical heritage of coastal communities and as such should be the basis for the development of fishing tourism. we therefore call on the commission to support investments in the promotion of the fishing heritage and the diversification of fisheries in the area of culture and art. however, in order to move beyond tradition and to ensure the future sustainability of island communities, parliament strongly supports the diversification of the fisheries sector through the development of complementary activities and investment in vessels, safety equipment, training and innovation, with the key objective of financing activities that are socially, environmentally and economically sustainable. these objectives can only be achieved with the participation of all local stakeholders, business associations, research institutes, universities, technology centres and local and regional institutions, and we call on the commission to provide them with sufficient support to meet the conditions set out in the european fisheries fund and to take more decisive steps to improve their financing possibilities. finally, i would like to thank all those who contributed to the preparation of this report. first of all, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs and all the members of the committee on fisheries, whose proposals and discussions have created a very constructive and positive atmosphere around this report. but as rapporteur, i would like to thank in particular the experts and fishermen from croatia who recognised the moment and decided to influence the political process with their knowledge and experience. this open and sincere cooperation between politics and the interested public restores faith in democratic processes and gives hope that together with citizens we can fix everything that is wrong with the european union today.
madam president, i congratulate my colleague, ms tomašić, on an excellent report which will certainly contribute to the quality of life of small fishermen. the reform of the common fisheries policy launched in january 2014 aims to bring innovation, create new markets and improve the quality of life in coastal areas. the improvement of the quality of life in coastal areas is not possible while the so-called mediterranean regulation of 2006 is in force due to the non-selective approach of prohibiting the use of traditional tools and techniques in the mediterranean area. such bans lead to abandonment of traditional methods of hunting and displacement of the population, especially from the islands, due to the impossibility of meeting basic existential needs. i therefore agree that coastal, small-scale coastal and traditional fisheries need to be defined in accordance with the socioeconomic characteristics, the protection of biodiversity and the specificities of the different regions, and not just in accordance with the size and power of fishing vessels, given the fact that the existing european union regulations are not satisfactory.
madam president, the common fisheries policy is like the expression of some bureaucrat from some office on the 12th floor, i do not know exactly which street in brussels. the fact that we have a report that is so insignificant makes it seem like something that is really the result of a great deal of hard work and negotiation, and that is why i want to express my strong support for the ambition that the traditional small-scale fisheries should finally be given the place that they deserve within european policies. of course, this is extremely important for the survival of many island communities, of course it is important for the promotion of tourism and of course it is important for the food and wine industry of the islands, but also of the coastal regions. so i want to express my strong support and i will promote this report in croatia and in other island and coastal regions of europe.
madam president, i support this report and congratulate my colleague, mrs tomašić, on her proposal to amend the mediterranean regulation and the existing regulations on the selection of tools and techniques. small-scale coastal fishing is extremely important from the socioeconomic and traditional-cultural point of view for the island and coastal population of the republic of croatia. that's why i've launched an initiative to declare small fishing as an intangible cultural heritage of the republic of croatia. the commission notes that the cfp is not a direct competitor of the cfp, but rather a competitor of the cfp. small-scale coastal fishing with traditional techniques and tools is a centuries-old tradition in croatia and an important component of the identity of the croatian coastal area. i therefore believe that a regional approach to the management of marine resources, taking into account all the geographical, biological, sociological and economic specificities, is needed to reverse the negative trends that the old cfp has brought about.
written. the existing provisions on small-scale fishing not only abolish centuries-old practices and traditions, but can further fuel the advanced problem of depopulation of the islands, endangering the identity and existence of the islanders. legislation needs to be adjusted to preserve the unique cultural heritage of small-scale fishermen. i am therefore very pleased that the most important amendment was adopted, in which i called on the commission to allow small-scale coastal fishing in island communities that traditionally depend on fishing for their own livelihoods. the commission has also proposed an amendment to the regulation which would make it possible to define coastal and small-scale coastal or traditional fishing for non-commercial purposes on the basis of the socioeconomic and cultural characteristics of the area rather than the size and power of the fishing vessels. i am particularly pleased that an amendment has been adopted which raises concerns about the loss of traditional fishing skills and knowledge due to regulations that are detrimental to coastal communities. as a representative born on an island and raised by the sea, aware of the importance and difficulty of island life, i call for the adaptation of european legislation to preserve the unique cultural heritage of small fishermen. this would really confirm europe's unity in its diversity.
member of the commission.– madam president, first all we greatly appreciate this timely report on the external dimension of the fisheries policy prepared by the rapporteur, ms engström, and i would also like to thank the rapporteur. the report’s recommendations are very much in the same direction as the commission’s policy. it recognises that sustainable fishing partnership agreements contribute to sustainable fishing and to the development of the fisheries sector in partner countries. i fully agree that these agreements play a key role in the global governance of the oceans. as you know, my ambition is to set a benchmark at international level through these agreements. sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfpas) contribute to the achievement of development goals, in particular food security. we need to help developing countries to manage their resources in a sustainable way, and this is key for the supply of healthy food and for the livelihood of coastal populations. i welcome the report’s finding that sfpas are a very successful tool that integrate the partnership component and commercial aspects of the sfpas, and that they promote transparency, sustainability and accountability. i also share your objective that we should ensure even better consistency between fisheries, environmental and trade policy, as well as development cooperation. i agree that, as pointed out in the court of auditors’ report, there is room for further improvement. this is the case, for example, for our sectoral support policy. this is already a highly effective tool, supporting our third-country partners in developing their fisheries sector in a sustainable way and in fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. we will continue to work to rally the sector’s support and ensure better coherence with our policies and our regional cooperation. some of the report’s recommendations have already been included in my recent proposal on the sustainable management of the external fleet. i want to improve the current legal framework and extend its scope to tackle any situation where a union vessel is fishing outside eu waters, including under the so-called private licences. i also want to prevent abusive reflagging, which is not addressed in the current rules. these measures should definitely improve transparency and represent an additional step in reinforcing the governance of oceans where the eu is playing a key role. i am therefore looking forward to parliament’s support on this proposal. finally, a few words on regional fisheries management organisations. we have a key interest in creating such bodies where stocks are shared, and in ensuring that they work well when they already exist. we have been working hard to increase the performance of these bodies in recent years, including through financial contributions. we will also continue to improve scientific compliance and to ensure science—based decision-making. geographical gaps, such as in the central arctic ocean, should be closed by setting up an adequate management framework. existing advisory bodies, such as the fishery committee for the eastern central atlantic, should be made into fully-fledged decision-making bodies. but we cannot achieve this alone. therefore, since the beginning of my mandate, i have reached out to a number of key players to move better fisheries governance forward. regarding the rapporteur’s support for our stronger and clearer provisions on joint ventures, the commission has proposed this through specific conditions in its new proposal for the regulation of the external fleet – far – which is now under negotiation. this will increase transparency and reduce opportunities for abuse. i would like to take the opportunity to assure you that the commission is fully committed to improving global fisheries governance as an essential component of ocean governance. we will continue to act globally at the level of the un and fao to have the legal framework we need, regionally to have efficient fisheries management bodies in place, and bilaterally in the framework of sustainable fisheries partnership agreements and dialogues with key partners to make sure fish stocks are managed in the best possible way and in a transparent manner. i would like to thank this house for its support and i am looking forward to continuing our work in a good spirit of cooperation.
madam president, the trial chamber of the hague court has delivered an acquittal to vojislav šešelj, serbian war criminal and the main organizer and commander of the criminal paramilitary during the war in croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. this verdict is scandalous in itself, but some of its parts are particularly shocking. the council, for example, characterised greater serbia as a 'political rather than criminal project', which clashed with some earlier judgments of the same court. it is clear to anyone who is familiar with the political and military events in the territory of the former yugoslavia in the 1990s that greater serbia could not have come into being in any other way than by crime, so that such a characterization is completely absurd. by this judgment, the icty has undermined not only the process of reconciliation in the territory of the former yugoslavia, but also the confidence in international law. after this, many countries will in future refrain from cooperating with international courts, which will negatively affect world peace and stability.
madam president, in many member states, and here i would particularly point out my home country, croatia, there is a lack of measures for the energy renovation of multi-storey buildings, and in particular those measures that focus on vulnerable and socially vulnerable groups of consumers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality, as set out in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty, i call on the government of the republic of croatia to amend the unfair law and regulation and remind the commission of its timely future action and reaction to protect consumers and the rights of citizens of the european union.
mr. president, what are we talking about today? we talk about the consequences of our interventions in libya, in iraq, what we're doing in syria, that's what we're talking about today. we're talking about the consequences of a policy that didn't work. at least obama had the guts to say the other day that intervening in libya was the worst move of his career. we haven't heard from cameron, we haven't heard from sarkozy and we haven't heard from many others. we are talking today about the consequences of what we have done and in order to be able to think in the future about what we will do in the mediterranean in the long term, let us also talk about what we have done in the last few years in the mediterranean. of course, i want to make clear here my support for dublin plus, for everything that is written in these reports, because i am sure that it is the cooperation of the eu member states that can only contribute to solving the migration crisis, but let us not forget why it has happened.
mr president, i congratulate my colleagues on the substance of the report and i particularly agree with the calls for a review of the dublin system and the blue card system. we need new rules on the integration of migrants into the labour market in line with the needs of the member states. we also need mutual recognition of approved asylum applications among member states, clear measures on rescue operations and responsibility sharing among member states on location. in the context of the discussions we are currently having on the proposal to establish a european border and coast guard, this report is an excellent reference. as a representative of croatia, a country through which more than 650 000 people have passed without incident since september last year, and which is fenced off from the rest of the european union, i would like to highlight in particular the passage which rightly emphasises that the new proposals should cover not only the schengen area but also the external borders of the european union. it would be good if future european policies on migration and border controls were supported by a similar consensus in the european parliament around this report.
mr president, commissioner, six months after the first package of measures of eur 500 million to alleviate the crisis in the milk and milk products, pigmeat and fruit and vegetables sectors, the european commission has announced the introduction of an additional package of emergency measures to support farmers in the european union. this is on top of the €1 billion already secured over the past year by the european union to help the crisis-hit agricultural sector. although the commission has indeed reacted quickly and adopted a range of measures, i must say that measures such as milk and meat storage or reducing milk production are not measures that will help farmers, especially not those in new member states like croatia. all surpluses end up in the weakest market and the very position, commissioner, is that by helping the old member states we must not drag the new member states down, and that is what is happening right now. i therefore expect you to propose balanced and effective measures that will be supportive of every european farmer. i am asking the european commission to support the adoption of a regulation at european level to prevent unfair trading practices and to at least thereby curb unfair competition. we all need food, and if those who produce food cannot survive on their labor, then we must devise new measures to help them, and i believe we will get your support.
mr. president, we have four ways to resolve this crisis, or at least four ways. the first is to open up discussions on whether this policy towards russia makes sense or not and whether we can really get the russian market back or whether the commissioner will travel a lot and look for new markets: the chinese market is certainly interesting. either we find more money for our farmers or we will, what i particularly want to advocate here, change our overall agricultural policy and try to work on quality rather than quantity. the originality and excellence of our european products must be what our global competitiveness must be, our competitiveness on the world market. i am all for such a long-term policy, but we need to start working on it now because it is clear that the increase in the world's population will allow our excellence and our originality to be even more recognized in the world market.
written. as prices for milk, meat and fruit continue to fall, the eu has introduced emergency measures to help farmers. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the milk levy. the european parliament welcomes the measures taken and stresses the need to evaluate whether the aid has reached primary producers. meps also addressed the issue of unfair practices in the food production chain. i am working in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection to put an end to such practices. the commission has also found that the conditions for the granting of the aid are not met. primary producers are faced with the choice of 'either letting the product rot or selling it for a pittance'. such practices not only destroy farmers but ultimately affect the price and quality of products that account for 14 percent of the average household's budget. we see that the purchase prices are constantly falling and the farmers are failing, but the price of the product for the final consumer remains the same.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on the application of the arrangements for products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in the agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of economic partnership agreements, as this does not affect the substance of the proposal but is mainly a matter of technical amendments. the consolidated acts do not change their content, but they are simplified and made clearer and more accessible to citizens. the european union must ensure that its legal acts are more easily searchable and understandable, and codification is a step in that direction. in this context, i support the interinstitutional agreement which allows for an accelerated procedure for the rapid adoption of codified acts and for the involvement of commission staff in the codification of acts after a maximum of ten amendments.
written. ‒ the report on the commission proposal proposes to codify the existing 2007 council regulation on products originating in the acp states (african, caribbean and pacific group of states). the codification of the text concerns market access, i.e. the management of goods and products from acp countries so that they do not have to pay customs duties or have a limitation on the quantity of imported products. since the entry into force of the council regulation, the text has been codified several times, with the aim of achieving a final version of the text that is transparent and simple for all the contracting parties, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the arrangements for products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in the agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of the economic partnership agreement, as there are no changes in the content of the legislation, but the proposed changes are limited to the codification of existing texts already adopted by this parliament. the objective of this codification is to ensure greater transparency and clarity of the legislation and to simplify it. since the original regulation governing the application of the arrangements for products originating in certain acp countries has been amended nine times since its adoption in 2007, it is necessary to harmonise, consolidate and codify all the changes made in order to contribute to a clearer legislative text. the consolidation was done in agreement with the european parliament, there was no change in the content of the legislative acts, but it was a consolidation of unchanged provisions of already existing acts already adopted by parliament, and i therefore supported their consolidation as it contributes to easier handling of the matter, transparency and the criterion of unity.
written. ‒ council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 regulates imports into the european union of products originating in a country of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, and this trade agreement is one of the tools that seeks to strengthen the eu-africa partnership, providing more opportunities for african and european citizens to participate. i would point out that trade agreements are the most important instruments for promoting trade between the european union and african regions, and that tariff-free and quota-free access to the european union market is therefore a necessary instrument to be safeguarded. for this reason, i welcome this agreement and consider that preferential market access for certain acp states should continue to be fostered, i.e. that products originating in regions or countries other than the least developed countries of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states should continue to be imported duty-free and quota-free. i also welcome the codification of the regulation, which seeks to contribute to the transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation.
written. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague, mr jarosław wałęsa, on the application of the arrangements for products originating in certain countries belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in the agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of economic partnership agreements. i consider that council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 needs to be amended for the sake of clarity, as further amendments are inevitable. i welcome the amendments to article 3 (4) which will enable the commission to adopt confidential acts setting out the regime applicable to products from south africa, when the relevant provisions of the south african trade, cooperation and development agreement (tdca) are replaced by the relevant provisions of the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the southern african development community (sadc).
written. ‒ i supported the revision of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the arrangements for products originating in certain states belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in the agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of economic partnership agreements, as the commission proposal aims to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of european legislation, after the original legal instrument has been amended nine times. the amendment is necessary due to limited changes in certain articles and would allow the commission to adopt delegated acts to establish the regime applicable to products originating in south africa, after the replacement of the eu-south africa trade, development and cooperation agreement by the european partnership agreement. the committee on legal affairs considers that the proposal in question does not contain any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts with those amendments, the proposal contains a pure codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerns the amendment of the council regulation on the application of the regulation to products originating in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states provided for in the agreements establishing, or leading to the establishment of, economic partnership agreements. the new regulation is necessary to facilitate the understanding of transparency and accessibility for the citizens of the european union and it is for these reasons that it is important to replace the acts incorporated therein by transmitting in full the content of the acts to be codified. this temporary instrument provides duty-free and duty-free access to the eu market for products originating in the acp states. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerns the codification and amendment of the so-called market access regulation regulating imports of products originating in certain countries belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states. this permanent instrument provides duty-free and therefore more favourable access to the european union market for products originating in acp states, other than the least developed countries. the new regulation will replace certain acts included in the regulation, but will preserve the content of the acts being codified. i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the arrangements for products originating in certain acp states provided for in the agreements establishing, or leading to the establishment of, economic partnership agreements. i consider that the change is necessary because the purpose is the same: to consolidate the legislative part, which has already been amended countless times, into a single legislative text in order to make it more accessible and clearer.
written. ‒ the european union has longstanding relations with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states and their comprehensive partnership includes a political dimension, economic and trade cooperation and cooperation in development finance. the initial emphasis of the partnership between the two parties was on development aid and trade, as reflected in the donor-recipient relationship. in view of the change in circumstances and relations, the partnership focused on meeting common interests. the cotonou agreement signed in 2000 has significantly strengthened the political foundation of the partnership by including a comprehensive political dialogue with the acp states. i supported this proposal because it is a codification of existing texts without substantial changes to them.
written. ‒ i support this agreement which serves to maintain fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the greenland fishing zone and contributes to better management and conservation of fisheries resources through sectoral support, in particular for monitoring domestic and foreign fleets and combating illegal fishing.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part, as it gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. the agreement provides for the european union to provide financial and technical assistance to greenland and is the third most important agreement of the union in terms of economic value. on the other hand, fishing rights in greenland's exclusive economic zone make a significant contribution to the eu economy and are in line with the common fisheries policy. i fully support the proposal for a new agreement for a period of five years which will certainly ensure mutual benefit, but it should take into account the conservation of marine biodiversity and ensure that the activities to be implemented are sustainable and environmentally sound.
written. ‒ the first fisheries partnerships between the eu, greenland and denmark date back to 1985, when the first agreement was signed for a period of 10 years, renewed for a further 6 years after expiry. the majority of greenland's fish exports are destined for the european union market, while denmark exports more than 90% to the union market. the greenland agreement is of particular importance for the eu's economic growth, as it is the third largest economic agreement. the renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement brings additional economic benefits, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ i support the rapporteur's request for the approval of the fisheries partnership protocol between the eu and greenland by the european parliament. i agree that the new protocol should be consistent with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, which will contribute to better cooperation between the union and greenland. a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources should be a priority as they are in the common interest. i am concerned that the fisheries agreement allows eu crews to fish for stocks that have already been taken that are above the precautionary scientific recommendations. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european union fisheries control agency. i welcome the initiative that the next protocol serves to increase financial interests in terms of sustainable exploitation of fish stocks. i also support better follow-up of scientific recommendations because without such recommendations we cannot talk about sustainable fisheries, which is of particular interest to the eu, and especially because the eu is a leader in sustainable fisheries policy. the increase in controls and the alignment of financial compensation on the basis of ex ante evaluation is an objective which we need to pursue unequivocally and as up-to-date and efficiently as possible. finally, i agree that the european parliament should have a more significant role in approving fisheries partnership agreements in order to make the protocol more transparent and democratic.
‒ greenland is one of the 26 overseas countries and territories covered by part iv of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. its economy is heavily dependent on the fishing sector, the second largest economic sector in greenland. the new protocol, covering a period of five years from the date of its signature, provides for an annual financial contribution of eur 17 799 978. the protocol should strengthen cooperation between the european union and greenland and promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone. the agreement covers several species and provides for fishing opportunities for cod, pelagic scallops, plaice, haddock, plaice, sprat and grenadier. for all of the above, i welcome the signing of the agreement.
written. - i supported the report of my colleague affronte. i consider that it is in the interest of both the european union and greenland to renew the protocol, which provides important economic benefits to both parties and helps to ensure coherence of the european union's fisheries activities elsewhere in the region. this will also strengthen cooperation with greenland and develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the greenlandic fishing zone. i think it is important to support the protocol, since it is the third most important agreement for the eu in terms of economic value.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european union has signed a large number of fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries in recent years. those agreements provide for the european union to provide financial and technical assistance in exchange for fishing rights in the exclusive economic zone of the partner countries. the agreement with denmark and the autonomous province of greenland, which replaced the original 1985 fisheries agreement, is also currently in force. the greenlandic economy is highly dependent on the fisheries sector and the new protocol, covering a period of five years from the date of signature, should strengthen the cooperation between the eu and greenland in a way that promotes the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources. in terms of economic value, the greenland agreement is the third most important for the european union and i believe that the signing of the agreement is in the interest of both parties. in view of the above, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the first fisheries agreement between the european union and denmark, more precisely greenland, its autonomous province, was concluded in 1985 for 10 years and was extended for a further six years, after which it was replaced by the fisheries partnership agreement currently in force. the agreement is of great importance as almost all greenland fishery products are intended for export to the european union. the agreement is also the third most important for the union in terms of economic value. i support the recommendation of my colleague mr affronte on the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland because i believe it is in the interest of both the european union and greenland that the protocol be renewed. the protocol provides important economic benefits to both parties and contributes to ensuring coherence with other eu fisheries activities in the region. furthermore, the protocol is in line with the objectives of the abovementioned agreement as it strengthens the cooperation between the union and greenland and promotes a partnership framework to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fish in greenland's fishing zone.
written. ‒ i would point out that the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, on the one hand, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, on the other, needs to be regularly evaluated, as this agreement is the third most important economic agreement the european union has with a foreign country in terms of profitability. the european union benefits greatly from the agreement on the use of greenland's fishing zones, and greenland also benefits greatly from the financial resources received from the european union treasury. the new protocol will strengthen the cooperation between the union and greenland and promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone in the interest of both parties. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i support this agreement which amends the provisions relating to the labelling clause, safety, competition and taxation in the existing air services agreements between the eu and macao.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china, as it gives its consent to the conclusion of this agreement. the agreement ensures compliance with european competition law and prevents discrimination by third countries against european air carriers established in one member state and not owned or controlled by nationals of the country concerned. i consider it necessary to ensure effective measures aimed at combating anti-commercial practices and therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ international aviation relations between member states and third countries are governed by bilateral air services agreements. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carrier has been operating in the union for more than five years. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator would have been able to obtain a profit in the absence of the aid. it is also necessary to address the issue of competition, which should be brought into line with eu law by amending or supplementing existing provisions. the agreement replaces certain provisions and aligns them with the eu acquis in the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ between the macao sar the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in the absence of the agreement. i welcome this agreement as it amends certain legal provisions in 15 bilateral agreements. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2004 was not a binding agreement between ryanair and ams. the agreement covers essential aspects of air transport, such as labelling, safety, taxation and compatibility with competition rules. the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism has expressed its support for the proposed agreement and i have also supported its adoption.
written. ‒ international aviation relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements. the court of justice of the european union ruled in 2002 that the customary designation clauses in bilateral air services agreements between member states are in breach of eu law. the commission has also received comments from the air carrier air madagascar, which has been granted an exemption from the application of the landing obligation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carrier has been operating in the union for more than a year. this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees that nationals of a member state who have exercised their freedom of establishment will be treated in the host member state on an equal footing with nationals of that member state. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams. for the reasons stated above, i give my consent to the conclusion of this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation of my colleague, mr dieter-lebrecht koch, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the european union and macao. the agreement will enable all carriers in the eu to benefit from the right of establishment and will prohibit practices that distort competition. i agree with all aspects of the agreement which replaces certain provisions in the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements concluded between the eu member states and macao. consequently, i give a favourable opinion on the conclusion of this agreement.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china, citing the 2002 judgment of the court of justice of the european union that the usual designation clauses in bilateral air services agreements between member states are in breach of eu law. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been granted an economic advantage by the state. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between the airlines and the airlines is not a bilateral agreement, but rather a bilateral agreement between the airlines and the airlines. the commission has therefore concluded an agreement replacing certain provisions in the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between the eu member states and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the main aspects of the agreement include the granting of the right of establishment to all eu carriers, the guarantee of the security provisions in bilateral agreements applicable in cases where regulatory control over an air carrier is exercised by a member state that has not designated that air carrier, the taxation of jet fuel and the prohibition of distortions of competition.
written. ‒ member states and third countries have traditionally regulated international aviation relations through bilateral air services agreements. the agreement between the member states of the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china contains certain clauses which are not in conformity with eu law and the commission concluded an agreement, signed on 23 november 2013, replacing certain provisions in 15 existing bilateral air services agreements. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. i support the recommendation and consider it important to ensure compliance with european union law by amending or supplementing existing provisions in bilateral agreements.
written. ‒ member states and macao have concluded bilateral air service agreements containing fees contrary to european union legislation. the commission has also received comments from the air carrier air madagascar, which has submitted a request for a review of the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the application of the exemption from the exemption from the application of the exemption from the exemption from the exemption. the commission notes that the agreement between the union and macao on the air services agreement between the union and macao is based on the principle of mutual recognition of air carriers operating in macao. i support the recommendation of mr koch on the eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air services. the commission considers that the commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the analysis of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i believe that the said agreement is the most effective instrument for the harmonisation of all existing bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states and macao as well as for the simplification of the overall eu legislation.
written. ‒ i have supported the agreement replacing certain provisions in the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states of the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the designation clause, security, taxation and compliance with competition rules are the main aspects of this agreement. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carrier has been granted a marketing authorisation for the purpose of this investigation. i would also stress the importance of the article on the taxation of aviation fuel, which is in line with the council directive on the restructuring of the community system of taxation of energy products and electricity, and the importance of the article prohibiting practices that distort competition.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax, as regards the duration of the obligation to respect the minimum standard rate, given that the minimum standard rate currently applied in all member states constitutes a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. the existing system of a minimum standard rate of 15% gives member states room to manoeuvre in implementing vat reforms. the decision to set the standard rate at no less than 15% from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2018 ensures the necessary period for the definitive vat system for intra-eu trade that the commission intends to propose and the reforms that the commission intends to bring to bear to adapt the existing vat rate regulations, i.e. the establishment of a definitive system based on the principle of destination rather than origin.
written. ‒ the vat directive provides that from 1 january 2011 to 31 december 2015 the standard rate shall not be less than 15%. the report proposes extending the time frame to two years, i.e. until 31 december 2017. the minimum rate of vat applies because vat is still charged at the place of origin of the products, rather than at the place of destination, and serves as a safety net for the proper functioning of the internal market. the report proposes to extend the timeframe for the duration of the standard rate of 15%, which will ensure further development and stability in the internal market, and i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ the minimum standard vat rate of 15% has been in place for years and, with this proposal to amend the vat directive, the european parliament proposes to use it until 31 december 2018. the vat directive provides that the standard rate cannot be less than 15%. the commission notes that the tax exemption for the purposes of article 107 (1) tfeu is not a tax measure that is directly linked to the taxable person's activity. it is also not an ambitious scheme to replicate the existing system, and given that in all member states the standard rate is currently higher than 15%, it also gives member states room for manoeuvre by allowing them to implement vat reforms aimed at reducing the standard rate by broadening the vat base and limiting the application of reduced rates. in view of the above possibilities, i stress the need to apply flexibility mechanisms at national level, especially in the food production sector, with the aim of raising the purchasing power of citizens, but also to help the crisis-hit agricultural sector. for all the above reasons, i supported the amendment to the directive in question.
written. ‒ with a view to establishing the internal market, the commission presented on 1 january 1993 proposals for the establishment of a definitive system of tax harmonisation. given that all member states currently have a standard rate in force of more than 15%, the existing system of a minimum standard rate of 15% also gives member states room for manoeuvre by allowing them to implement vat reforms aimed at reducing the standard rate by broadening the vat base and limiting the application of reduced rates. on 6 december 2011, the commission adopted a communication on the future of vat, which proposed that the country of origin principle cease to apply and described several ways in which taxation could be achieved at the place of destination. the commission will publish in 2016 an action plan for a simple and effective final vat system that is fraud-proof and fit for the single market. i agree with the commission's proposal to retain the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% retroactively and to propose to extend the application of the existing rules for three years (until 31 december 2018).
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the directive on the common system of value added tax provides that, from 1 january 1993 to 31 december 1996, the standard rate may not be lower than 15% in any member state. the application of that provision has been extended five times and applies until 31 december 2015. the recent amendments to the vat directive propose to end taxation in the country of origin and introduce taxation at the place of destination. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax exemption is justified by the nature of the tax system in question. the commission has committed itself to publishing in 2016 an action plan for a simple and efficient final vat system that is fraud-proof and fit for the single market. given that the standard rate currently in force in all member states is above 15%, this sixth extension maintains the existing satisfactory situation until the adoption of the action plan. in view of the above, i support this report because i believe that for the proper functioning of the internal market, the minimum standard rate is currently a useful safeguard mechanism.
written. ‒ in january 1993, the commission proposed the harmonisation of the tax system throughout the european union with a view to creating a single market. however, this commission proposal could not be adopted by the council at that time and it decided to adopt a transitional form on the collection of value added tax. this has allowed the movement of goods within the single market, whereby such movement of goods is no longer considered to be an import or an export. in order to ensure the efficient functioning of the single market, directive 92/77/eec sets a minimum rate of vat. on that basis, the standard rate shall not be less than 15%. the provisions of that directive were to apply until december 2015. on 14 december 2015, the commission proposed to amend directive 2006/112/ec in order to extend the application of those rates until december 2017. i support this commission proposal because i believe that in practice the minimum standard rate of 15% has proved to be a good instrument for the functioning of the single market, which is also one of the eu's most important objectives.
written. ‒ the minimum standard rate applicable in all member states, i.e. the vat directive, which provides that from 1 january 2016 until december 2018 the standard rate of vat shall not be lower than 15%, is a useful safeguard mechanism for the proper functioning of the internal market. this sixth extension of the standard vat rate maintains the current situation, provides legal certainty for shareholders and allows the entry into force of a definitive vat system for intra-union trade. i am extremely positive about the harmonisation of legislation on turnover taxes to the extent necessary to ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortions of competition. given that the commission intends to publish in 2016 an action plan for a simple and efficient final vat system that will be fraud-proof and fit for the single market, it seems appropriate to maintain the principle of the minimum standard rate currently in force.
written. ‒ i support this report which aims to authorise europol to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and the eu relating to the exchange of operational, strategic or technically confidential information, other than personal data.
written. ‒ when voting on the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision authorising the european police office (europol) to conclude the strategic cooperation agreement between the federal republic of brazil and europol, i was staying sincered, because the agreement is of strategic importance for both parties and allows the exchange of technical, operational and confidential information, and therefore we need to be particularly careful. brazil has shown positive results in the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking, which is particularly important given that the 2016 olympic games will be held in brazil. i believe that international cooperation in the field of security should be further strengthened and improved, and the recent terrorist attacks have confirmed this very fact, and i have therefore been restrained, which is also the position of the alde group.
‒ the europol council, in consultation with the european parliament, decides on the conclusion of strategic agreements on international cooperation with third countries or organisations. the strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and europol aims to combat organised crime, trafficking in human beings and other criminal activities. according to the latest europol report, brazil is the key country with which the agreement should be signed. the current timeline for signing coincides with the 2016 olympic games, when a higher rate of criminal activity is expected. i supported the report on the conclusion of the europol-brazil agreement, as it allows for a contribution to better international security and crime reduction.
written. ‒ agreements with third countries, such as this agreement with brazil, may include the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or confidential information. according to europol, brazil is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime such as facilitated illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related offences and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. the commission notes that the 2016 olympic games are expected to lead to an increase in criminal activity, and that the security of all athletes and visitors requires that steps are taken now to raise the existing level of security through this bilateral agreement. the operational cooperation agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. given the clear operational need for europol's cooperation with brazil, i supported the adoption of this agreement.
written. ‒ there is a clear operational need for europol to cooperate with brazil. according to europol, brazil is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related offences and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. furthermore, the 2016 olympic games are expected to lead to an increase in criminal activity, as is the case with all other major sporting events. finally, brazil is also a country of particular interest in the area of counter-terrorism and asset recovery. i support the signing of a strategic partnership agreement.
written. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague claude moraes on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol. brazil is a country of particular interest in the area of counter-terrorism and asset recovery. it is also very important in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related offences and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. i believe that this agreement could increase the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious forms of crime and strengthen international cooperation in the field of criminal prosecution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report with a reservation, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european police office (europol) assists the member states of the european union in the fight against organised crime within the european union. since organised crime is an international problem requiring cooperation with third countries, europol has initiated the procedure for the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement with brazil. this agreement provides for the exchange of information, which may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on crime prevention methods and criminal investigation procedures, participation in training activities and provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the strategic agreement does not contain provisions relating to the exchange of personal data and confidential information. the aim of the strategic agreement is to support and strengthen the competent authorities of the member states and to encourage their mutual cooperation in order to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime affecting two or more member states. i therefore support this report and consider it important to contribute to the security of the member states of the european union by working together to prevent and combat organised crime.
written. ‒ by decision of the european council, europol (the european police office), which assists national law enforcement authorities in the fight against serious international crime and terrorism, may conclude agreements with third countries listed in the council decision, in order to contribute by joint cooperation to the prevention of and fight against organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime. the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil would increase the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information, excluding personal data and classified information, which would contribute significantly to the effectiveness of europol and of the national authorities responsible for preventing and combating crime. i support mr moraes' report because i believe that by concluding the agreement, europol would increase its effectiveness in preventing and combating crime and thus contribute to the security of the member states, and in particular of the citizens of the european union. organised crime and other forms of serious crime are an international problem because they cross borders, which means that it is crucial for the eu to cooperate with third countries that may be directly or indirectly linked to crime and serious crime in the eu.
written. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement between the federal republic of brazil and europol as i believe it will strengthen the fight against organised crime, terrorism and other forms of crime. the terms of cooperation governed by the strategic agreement shall exclude the exchange of personal data but shall provide for the exchange of information consistent with europol's tasks and covering expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, participation in training activities and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. the parties shall cooperate with each other in the fight against corruption and other serious criminal offences, including money laundering, terrorist financing and money laundering.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler, on the grounds that it concerns an alleged criminal offence, namely a serious road traffic accident. the criminal proceedings cannot be linked to article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, namely to the expression of an opinion or the voting of members in the exercise of their duties, nor is there any doubt that mr winkler is being politically harmed. therefore, i support this decision to waive mr. winkler's immunity.
the public prosecutor's office in leipzig has requested the waiver of the immunity of the representative hermann winkler for the alleged criminal part. winkler's attorney is being investigated for his involvement in a serious car accident that occurred on september 23, 2015. the representative invoked the immunity and the public prosecutor's office in leipzig forwarded a request to the european parliament to waive the immunity. i supported a motion to waive the immunity of representative winkler to establish the role of the representative in a serious car accident.
written. ‒ the immunity of members is not a personal privilege of the member but a guarantee of the independence and integrity of parliament as a whole. this is to ensure that meps cannot be subject to any form of interrogation, detention or judicial proceedings for opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of their duties. however, the relevant national authorities may request the european parliament to waive the immunity of a member. as the office of the public prosecutor in leipzig (germany) has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler, member of the european parliament, in relation to the initiation of investigative proceedings for an alleged offence, and as the criminal proceedings are not related to the expression of an opinion or vote by a member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties, nor is the alleged offence related to the function of hermann winkler as a member of the european parliament, i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament to waive the immunity of hermann winkler in order to allow national judicial authorities to carry out their duties without disruption.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague, angela dzhambazki, on the request for waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler. the office of the public prosecutor in leipzig requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the above-mentioned member of the european parliament in relation to the initiation of the investigation procedure for the alleged criminal part - the road accident which occurred on 23 september 2015 in which he was involved. since there is no reason to believe that the criminal proceedings are intended to harm the political activity of deputy winkler, and since according to the german constitution a member of parliament cannot be called to account for a criminal offence without the consent of parliament, i consider that the waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler is justified.
‒ the public prosecutor's office in leipzig (germany) has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr herman winkler, in connection with the initiation of investigative proceedings for an alleged criminal offence. in accordance with article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament shall enjoy in the territory of their country the immunities accorded to members of the parliament of that country. as the request relates to the preliminary investigation into the serious road accident which occurred on 23 september 2015 and in which hermann winkler was involved, and as the criminal proceedings are not related to the expression of an opinion or the voting by a member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i have supported the report.
written. ‒ this draft decision advises the european parliament to waive the immunity of german mep winkler. the office of the public prosecutor in leipzig requested the waiver of parliamentary immunity, since investigations had been opened against hermann winkler for an alleged criminal offence in connection with a serious road traffic accident in which he had been involved. according to the german constitution, a member of parliament cannot be called to account for a crime without the consent of parliament, unless he is caught in the act or arrested during the next day. in addition, members of the european parliament shall enjoy in the territory of their country the immunity accorded to members of the parliament of that country. i support the motion to waive the immunity of hermann winkler, since without it, the investigation cannot be conducted. the offence allegedly committed by him is not directly connected with his function in parliament nor is it liable to prejudice his political activity.
written. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of the immunity of german mep hermann winkler, who is under investigation for allegedly participating in a serious road accident on 23 september 2015 under the influence of alcohol. i consider that there is no reason to assume, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion, that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned, since the alleged offence is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament. since the office of the public prosecutor in leipzig has, in connection with the preliminary investigation into the road accident, sent a request for waiver of immunity to the above-mentioned representative, i consider it appropriate to waive the representative's immunity and to allow him to be tried in a fair and impartial manner.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the fisheries aspects covered by the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond the national jurisdiction of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, because i believe that it is necessary to ensure the sustainable management of oceans and seas in order to provide a concrete solution to the problem of environmental pollution. 71% of our planet is covered by the sea, which is home to a significant part of the world's biodiversity and a priceless heritage that is increasingly in serious danger. the increasing number of marine activities taking place in the underwater world threatens the conservation of biodiversity and reduces the level of marine resources. i believe that such activities should, above all, be sustainable and in line with international obligations and rules. in this context, it is crucial to prevent overfishing, illegal and unregulated fishing and the huge amount of marine litter. i believe that it is essential to strengthen international binding instruments and to fully exploit and unleash the potential of the blue economy in accordance with the principles of fair and sustainable exploitation.
written. ‒ the united nations highlighted the importance of protecting the world's waters through the study agenda 21 published at the 1992 'earth summit'. the conference highlighted the need for an international approach to prevent, reduce and conserve marine biodiversity. the conference served as a fundamental basis for further development of studies and awareness-raising on marine protection. in recent decades, the dynamics of marine activities that directly affect marine biodiversity have increased significantly. it has contributed to the decline of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystems. in view of its international impact, the union actively promotes the protection and control of marine biodiversity as well as the conservation of marine ecosystems and defines the instruments to achieve this. the union shall, in cooperation with third countries, make efforts to build the necessary capacities, transfer marine technology, protect vulnerable and rare ecosystems and protect endangered species of marine life. sustainable use and conservation of marine biodiversity is closely linked to sustainable development, is long-term and is of paramount importance for all countries from an economic, social and environmental point of view, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ aware of the importance of conserving and using oceans, seas and their resources sustainably, i support the report which calls for the eu and the international community to promote the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources by introducing, alongside other measures, modern fisheries management concepts. i also welcome the decision of the un general assembly to take steps towards developing a new international instrument under unclos for marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdictional boundaries to address the shortcomings of the current situation. the eu is the current world leader in ocean governance and in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing, and i therefore support the report's calls for the commission to take a leadership role when we talk about other international issues. the commission should support and promote the establishment of linked, clear and representative networks of marine protected areas, as these networks are necessary to ensure ecological and biological coherence, just as this new international agreement should guarantee a level playing field for all stakeholders. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend the list of fisheries products subject to the derogation provided for in article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013.
written. ‒ as a representative from a country with access to the open sea, where the majority of the coastal population depends on fishing as a branch of the economy, pointing out that the preservation of healthy marine habitats and sustainable fish stocks, both in national waters and in areas beyond national jurisdiction, is of key importance for the long-term sustainability of fisheries. in recent decades, the number of activities carried out in the marine environment has increased, and with it the pressure on sustainability and the conservation of marine biodiversity. the potential for growth and jobs is enormous and should be harnessed within the ecological limits of the marine environment. fisheries and aquaculture play an important role in the marine economy, and responsible fisheries and aquaculture are key to the sustainable and healthy development of marine ecosystems. for this reason, i welcome the initiative for a comprehensive regime at global level to better cover the conservation and management of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
written. - i support the report of my colleague nicolae. it is necessary to emphasise the importance of a comprehensive global regime for the protection of the world's waters in order to deal with pollution and the growing threat to marine biodiversity, as the preservation of healthy marine habitats and sustainable fish stocks is of key importance for the long-term sustainability of fisheries. the un has shown its commitment to these goals through its documents, but i believe that plans and priorities need to be adapted to a rapidly changing world. the commission will continue to support the development of a global approach to the conservation of marine biodiversity, including the establishment of a global framework for the conservation of marine biodiversity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts specifying the technical specifications for the equipment and the means of transport required for the installation of the equipment and the means of transport. the need for an international approach to the management of pollution and the growing threats to marine biodiversity is emphasised. the importance of conserving and using oceans, seas and their resources sustainably, and of introducing modern fisheries management concepts, maintaining fish stocks at levels that allow maximum sustainable yield and conserving and managing biodiversity based on ecosystems, is also highlighted. i believe that the conservation and responsible management of natural resources is one of the most important tasks, not only for the european union, but for the whole world. increased accountability, cooperation and transparency of all sectors involved are needed. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ in 2011, an ad hoc informal working group, established by the un, submitted a package of recommendations to the un general assembly on various issues beyond the boundaries of national jurisdiction. many of the limitations of the status quo were already apparent. each state has an obligation to protect the marine environment and habitats of rare species, which requires good coordination of all actors involved in marine activities. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe it is very important to preserve marine biodiversity, especially beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. fisheries is also one of the most important activities taking place in the seas and i believe that it must be included in all management and conservation measures. the resolution helps to regulate fisheries and the contents that come with them, which has a positive impact on the eu's economy and the people involved in this activity.
written. ‒ i supported the fight against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, which is by its nature a threat to marine biodiversity and seriously threatens the conservation of the marine ecosystem. the seas and oceans have a lot of potential for blue growth and development in the form of renewable energy sources, pharmaceuticals, the development of knowledge about the marine environment and its ecosystem and are therefore very important for all countries and territories. i believe that the protection of natural resources is essential for economic and social development, which is a prerequisite for the sustainable development of fisheries. i would also like to highlight the role of the commission in working to protect international waters and to encourage all states to ratify or accede to the convention on the law of the sea. the european union's role in global governance of the seas and oceans and its major impact on fisheries on the international stage, i voted in favour of this report.
written. ‒ the rearing of domestic animals such as cattle, sheep, horses, pigs and goats is extremely important for eu agriculture and the people who live off it. the commission's intention was to unify all the rules governing animal breeding and genetic material. the proposal at technical level addresses this important issue and that is why i supported it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their genetic material, as it simplifies and unifies the different parts of the specific legislation concerning bovine, porcine, caprine and equine animals. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the recognition and registration of breeding organisations, the classification and certification of breeding animals, their semen, ova and embryos, and the official controls and zootechnical checks. in this context, i believe that breeders have a very important role to play in protecting biodiversity, and i therefore support the conservation and advancement of animal breeding, as well as the rules governing the conservation and enhancement of native and endangered breeds.
‒ the european union is making a continuous effort to introduce zootechnical legislation to stimulate internal trade and facilitate the breeding of animals with genetic characteristics. such farming is of particular importance for the union as it is one of the main pillars of ensuring a source of food. in addition to providing food, farming also contributes to economic development by providing income from the export of products of animal origin. the commission aims to consolidate all directives relating to zootechnical legislation into one single applicable regulation in order to facilitate business in the single market. clear and simplified rules contribute to easier functioning within the union's borders and facilitate cooperation with partner countries, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i welcome the successful conclusion of the negotiations and the final text of the regulation on geotechnical and geological conditions for the placing on the market and importation into the union of breeding animals and their products. the aim of this adopted proposal is to encourage free trade within the eu and to facilitate the import and rearing of animals and their genetic material and to ensure that breeding programmes and genetic resources maintain all breeds existing in europe. this is extremely important because livestock farming, especially animals with a high degree of genetic specificity, not only contributes to the economic and social development of the area in which it is carried out but is also one of the pillars on which the safety of food production in the eu is based. i welcome the special concern for the conservation of endangered and rare breeds. the more defined scope of the regulation in this respect allows for the protection of biological and genetic diversity, the preservation and promotion of valuable indigenous breeds important for the development of local agriculture and, ultimately, a greater diversity of the offer of agricultural products with a high added value. it is precisely such value-added products that make a particular contribution to the success of european agriculture and at international level.
written. ‒ the rearing of cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equines, and to a lesser extent other animal species, is an economic and social activity of strategic importance to eu agriculture. the breeding of these species is best encouraged by using purebred breeding animals of proven high genetic quality. regulated breeding contributes to food security in the eu and plays a key role in the conservation of rare breeds and thus biodiversity. europe has a rich diversity of farm animal breeds, which form the largest genetic population of farm animals. these breeds have been selected for generations by farmers and breeders to be better adapted to the region, stronger and more productive, creating local breeds that have become part of the heritage. as a representative from a country where 26 recognised indigenous breeds of domestic animals live 4 horse breeds, 3 donkey breeds, 3 cattle breeds, 9 sheep breeds, 3 goat breeds, 2 pig breeds, 2 poultry breeds, 1 bee breeds and 7 indigenous dog breeds i believe that breeders' societies are at the heart of the improvement and preservation of our breeds and that clear rules are needed to better protect both breeders and animals, and i therefore support this european parliament resolution.
written. - i support the report of my colleague dantin. i am in favour of a new, comprehensive zootechnical regulation on valid animals for breeding which would replace the existing rules. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, in particular by means of the labelling of foodstuffs. i support the introduction of legal certainty by defining terms related to breeding, protecting the specificity of each species of animal, introducing specific rules on endangered animals, minimum rights and obligations of breeders. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of the principle of transparency, which will ensure a high level of official control.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their genetic material, as the commission intends to consolidate several laws dealing with zootechnical issues of different animals into one law in the form of a regulation. in addition to simplifying the law, the commission is proposing a harmonised structure for animal mating which will have significant implications for animal genetics in europe. the report points out that the commission proposal does not contain definitions of the term 'mating' and 'mating programmes' and that these are important for the interpretation of this regulation. the rights and obligations of the parenting profession will be regulated by national laws, so there is no need to introduce unnecessarily extreme provisions in the regulation to regulate the practices of parenting. the derogation is provided for equidae, in particular because their mating is organised internationally. europe is the world leader in equine production, so i think that diversity and quality should be preserved.
written. ‒ the breeding of domestic animals is of strategic importance for the european union's agriculture in economic and social terms and is an important source of income for the agricultural community. the objective of the zootechnical legislation of the european union is to promote free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material, taking into account the sustainability of breeding programmes and the conservation of genetic resources, thereby maintaining the competitiveness of the sector of breeding animals and their genetic material in the union. this regulation simplifies almost identical provisions from existing zootechnical legislation and is drafted in more precise and consistent language. i believe that the agricultural sector plays an important role in the eu economy and that it is important to ensure the simplicity and consistency of union legislation. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the eu's zootechnical legislation is based on the promotion of free trade within the eu, the simplification of animal import and breeding, and the maintenance of all animal species on european soil. animal husbandry, along with the safety of genetic material and the maintenance of existing species in europe, is an important part of eu legislation. this proposal for a regulation contains all the directives on zootechnical legislation and brings them together in one single document. the aim of the regulation is to complete the eu's single market and help breeders, while preserving biogenetic diversity within europe. i support the proposal for a regulation on breeding animals and their genetic material. i believe that this helps the social and economic development of the area where it takes place, but also the eu economy as a whole. the breeding of animals and their genetic material is one of the foundations of food safety on which eu citizens rely and i believe that this regulation further strengthens the confidence that citizens have in food safety.
the commission's proposal on breeding animals and their genetic material consists of a combination of four types of specific basic acts laying down fundamental principles, in particular with regard to breeding animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species. since the objective of such legislation on breeding animals within the european union is to promote free trade, facilitate imports, breeding animals and their genetic material while ensuring breeding programmes and genetic resources for the maintenance of the programmes, i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in, and imports into the union of, breeding animals and their genetic material. i believe that the economic and social importance of the farming of cattle, beef, pigs, sheep, goats and equines, and to a lesser extent of other animal species, is strategically important for the agriculture of the european union.
written. ‒ i support this report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration, which calls for a thorough 'remont' of the dublin iii regulation, with the aim of allocating responsibilities among member states on the basis of fair and objective criteria. i believe that the eu must find a strong and effective response in search and rescue operations at sea, and relocate a reasonable number of refugees, taking into account the number of refugees seeking eu protection. most importantly, the eu must show its humanity towards people in need, that is, it must prove all those european values for which we have consistently stood!
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration, because it is imperative to establish as soon as possible a long-term strategy for a common policy on asylum and migration, given that it is now clear to all that the current solution is not delivering the desired results. in order to plan eu policy towards the mediterranean in the long term, we need to analyse our actions in libya and iraq openly. i fully support the implementation of the new dublin agreement. i am convinced that only the cooperation of all eu member states can result in the resolution of the migration crisis in the mediterranean. in addition, i believe that it is necessary to ensure safe and legal routes for those seeking asylum within the european union and to improve the asylum system in such a way that it is primarily based on shared responsibility and solidarity.
written. ‒ the report touches on various elements that are crucial in addressing the refugee crisis, starting with the principle of solidarity, where it is emphasised that the eu must act on the principle of solidarity, which covers policies in the areas of asylum, migration and border control. smuggling, labour exploitation and trafficking in human beings are different criminal offences from a legal perspective and are subject to a different legal framework at union level. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the geographical scope of the geographical scope of the geographical indication. there are several union financial instruments available to finance member states and third countries in the area of refugees, asylum and border management, and therefore states should be encouraged to make full use of the opportunities available to them. i supported the report because the refugee crisis needs to be stabilised, and the only way to achieve this is through solidarity between member states.
written. ‒ the way we have managed the migrant crisis so far has lacked a good foundation solidarity. we left the member states to shoulder the burden they were unable to shoulder while at the same time trying to find a common response to the migration crisis. in that sense, i welcome this resolution. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european asylum policy, in particular by supporting the implementation of the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo). the existing legislation needs to be revised to be adapted to the times and the situation we face and to be a beacon of justice and solidarity. this resolution recognises the particular pressures faced by states located at their external borders. the increase in illegal arrivals in europe, the increase in deaths and the increase in human trafficking should concern us all. saving lives must be a priority, as must combating trafficking, protecting children and family unity. we need a long-term strategy to address the drivers of the migrant crisis -- conflict, persecution, ethnic cleansing in the middle east. all this is rightly recognised in this resolution, which i supported and which i hope will be a step towards an effective management of the migrant crisis for the benefit of refugees and migrants, but also of eu citizens.
written. ‒ the situation in the mediterranean has shown that the existing mechanisms under the dublin system have not proved to be objective, as they have not served to establish fair criteria for determining jurisdiction for applications for international protection and have not helped to provide rapid access to protection. many parts of the world are affected by war and violence, which could lead to more violence and insecurity and lead to additional population movements, thus further imposing the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. i therefore welcome this resolution and would like to point out that one option for a fundamental reorganisation of the dublin system would be to set up a central system for collecting applications at union level, with all member states bearing responsibility and migrants being relocated on the basis of fair and objective criteria. in addition, i consider that a sustained, reliable and effective union response in search and rescue operations at sea is crucial to preventing a rise in the number of migrants who die trying to cross the mediterranean, which stands at 444 this year alone, of which 77 are children. the commission should also be able to take into account the specific needs of third-country nationals seeking asylum in the union, in particular the need to ensure that the conditions for admission to the union are met.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. with more than 800 000 people having entered the eu in recent months, including 120 000 this year, the key task is to try to organise the reception of uncontrolled and illegal flows of people fleeing for their lives in a solidarity-based and humane way in accordance with legal regulations. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states and the union in the event of a disaster. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. i welcome the initiative to review the dublin regulation, to protect the schengen acquis and to make every effort to dialogue with turkey, where it is essential to prevent the smugglers of people across the aegean sea from causing tragedies. the western balkan countries, which are on the path of refugees and migrants to the eu, are under increasing and stronger pressure with serious humanitarian consequences, and i believe that they need help.
written. ‒ the basic principles of the european union's action in the field of migration are solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. the principle of solidarity covers asylum, immigration and border control policies. the increase in the number of illegal arrivals by sea and the increase in the number of deaths at sea is notable, so saving lives should be a top priority. in this regard, it is necessary to provide for sufficient financial resources for search and rescue operations, both at union and member state level. saving lives is an act of solidarity, but it's also a legal obligation under international law. on 27 may 2015, the commission adopted the eu action plan against migrant smuggling ('the action plan against migrant smuggling'), which provides for the establishment of a contact group of union agencies to combat migrant smuggling in order to strengthen operational cooperation and exchange of information. the eusr shall also contribute to the implementation of the mandate of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the integration of refugees is a two-way process, with member states providing full support and refugees respecting the principles on which the european union is founded. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ solidarity is a fundamental principle in tackling the migration crisis: from the fair sharing of responsibility between member states, through mutual recognition of asylum decisions, to the humanitarian reception and resettlement of migrants. even greater challenges in the mediterranean are smuggling and trafficking of people and illegal immigration. financial assistance should therefore be provided to the member states most affected by this crisis, in order to protect human life. i think a holistic approach is necessary in this situation. this means that in this crisis, the eu as a whole must fight against the negative consequences that affect individual member states. third countries should also be involved in the cooperation. i support this proposal because i believe that the external and internal borders within the eu should be protected. the security of eu citizens is imperative and can only be achieved if all countries have binding legislation. this will help to resettle migrants in the eu and, only with mutual efforts, to integrate them into the community.
written. ‒ since i believe that the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive european union approach to migration does not offer a sustainable solution to the current crisis facing europe and does not make clear proposals on how to tackle the migrant crisis, i voted against. i believe that we cannot reduce the unsustainable pressure on europe's borders simply by applying expensive technological solutions, but by changing migration and asylum policies. also, a large number of migrants come from countries not affected by conflict, and this report does not offer solutions for such cases.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the 2012-13 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality because i consider these two principles to be the foundation of the functioning of the union's structure. in this context, i believe that greater involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process and in the formulation of other policies is necessary; it is certainly necessary to consider whether certain objectives can be better achieved at european level than at regional or local level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). in addition, an impact assessment process, political dialogue and efforts to promote the principle of subsidiarity throughout the union are important in order to apply it in a consistent and effective manner. i therefore strongly support the request, in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, that the commission simplify the application procedures for european funds.
written. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the fundamental guiding principles of the european union and the starting point for policy-making. the annual reports for 2012 and 2013 show that the institutions of the european union and national parliaments have closely monitored compliance with these two principles. it also shows the more active participation and involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in recent years. it is important that national parliaments and the european institutions exchange views and practices on the supervision of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, as they are key to increasing the confidence of citizens who see them as an important instrument for reducing the democratic deficit. in order to ensure respect for the principle of subsidiarity, political dialogue is becoming increasingly important. in this regard, efforts by the commission and the rapporteurs to appear and engage with national parliaments more frequently should be encouraged. these reports ask the commission to simplify the application procedures for eu funds in line with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity in order to make them more efficient and result-oriented, which is why i supported this proposal.
written. ‒ i support the european commission's decision to launch a public consultation on the revision of the impact assessment guidelines and on the guidelines for the stakeholder consultation following parliament's call for improved communication with civil society in its resolution of 14 september 2011 on better regulation, subsidiarity and proportionality. i consider that the assessment of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality is an important part of the policy-making process in the european union. i welcome the fact that the budgetary authorities, when drawing up the budget of the european union, would use a comprehensive assessment of the results of the policies supported by the european commission to achieve greater efficiency, as it has been pointed out that eu budgetary resources are sometimes spent on projects that do not produce concrete results. i call on the commission to consider introducing on-the-spot evaluations for projects with a high local financial impact and to simplify the application procedures for eu funds in line with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity in order to make such procedures more efficient and successful.
written. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the basis for policy-making and the fundamental guiding principles of the european union. i therefore stress that the application of eu competence should be inspired by these principles. in areas not falling within the exclusive competence of the european union, the principle of subsidiarity seeks to protect the right of the member states to decide and act and to give legitimacy to union action where the objectives of an action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states, and therefore has practical relevance, in particular in the context of legislative procedures. the principle of proportionality seeks to place the action of the eu institutions within certain limits. the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. for this reason, i stress the need for the european institutions to respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and the importance of impact assessments and mechanisms for verifying the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, as they are of key importance for cooperation between the european and national institutions. i am concerned that the commission's annual reports are somewhat routine and often fail to give more detail on how subsidiarity, and in particular proportionality, is respected in eu policy-making. i believe in a strong europe that is capable of making the lives of its citizens better and i regret that this report does not share those beliefs.
written. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague, mr sayyad karim, on the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality. these are integral principles of policy-making to determine whether the eu can achieve its objectives better than local or regional initiatives. i consider it necessary to emphasise the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, in particular through full impact assessment procedures, which thoroughly evaluate compliance with the principle and are thus also essential for enhancing citizens' trust, which is closely linked to democracy. i am in favour of carrying out further subsidiarity checks and a full impact assessment after the legislative procedure has been completed, as this period will help policy makers to assess the compliance of legislation with eu fundamental principles and increase the transparency of the overall procedure.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are one of the principles of the european union's action and represent a starting point for policy-making. the annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality for 2012 and 2013 show an increase in the percentage of reasoned opinions in total submissions compared to 2010 and 2011. the national parliaments have observed that the inclusion of important and numerous delegated powers makes it difficult to effectively assess the full compliance of the final regulations with the principle of subsidiarity. furthermore, the commission's reports often do not go into more detail about how the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are respected in eu policy-making. certain policy objectives cannot always be better achieved by european action than by national or regional initiatives. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. a stronger approach and political dialogue are needed to fully recognise and guarantee respect for the principle of subsidiarity, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality indicate how much more effective the eu is in achieving political objectives than national and regional institutions. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. in this way, a powerful political dialogue takes on meaning. the early dialogue and involvement of eu rapporteurs with national parliaments shall be encouraged. i support the report on the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality. i believe that the principle of subsidiarity is essential for the confidence of eu citizens in the legislation and processes that are important for democracy and life in the eu. one of the fundamental principles of democracy is subsidiarity and this is what the whole process is based on, which also contributes to the transparency of the democratic process.
written. ‒ the more active participation and stronger involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in recent years is certainly a positive development, but i agree with the rapporteur that more work is needed to fully apply the principles on which the european union is founded, primarily with regard to the principle of subsidiarity, which is protected by the right of the member states to take decisions and act in areas covered by the treaty on european union. i therefore believe that it is necessary to create models that more clearly define when and on what basis national parliaments should intervene and when the institutions of the european union should. i also support the proposal for a more active participation and involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process. i believe that a strengthened dialogue between the commission and national parliaments will help to increase citizens' confidence in the democratic processes of the european union, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit): state of play and future prospects, because i believe that less burdensome rules and more efficient legislation at european level are needed. impact assessment and evaluation are key to monitor the objectives of the legislator and to differentiate rules at european level from those adopted at national level. in this context, i consider that refit provides a clear, simple and predictable legislative framework for businesses and citizens, and contributes to the removal of unnecessary burdens and to the improvement of the quality of the legislation itself. however, although over 100 measures have been taken to reduce and simplify the legislative burden in existing laws and regulations, there are still some sectors where this has not been done and additional efforts are therefore needed. i therefore support measures to reduce the legislative burden and i support this report.
written. ‒ the smart regulation programme seeks to consolidate better regulation to reduce the eu's legal and administrative burden. the programme aims to develop evidence-based policies that include impact assessment and ex-post controls for key policy elements. better decision-making should also cover the cultural aspect of eu public administration at all levels, as there is currently too much bureaucracy across the eu. the report notes that all eu institutions are required to maintain a transparent, open and regular dialogue with civil society. impact assessment is a key tool to support decision-making in all eu institutions and the impact of decision-making on smes needs to be taken into account. i supported the report because it encourages dialogue between the eu institutions, with the aim of simplifying regulations and reducing administrative barriers.
written. ‒ refit is an important first step towards simplifying legislation and reducing the administrative burden of regulations on businesses and removing obstacles to growth and job creation. i welcome the commission's better regulation package and consider it an important instrument for better regulation. i consider the refit programme to be the first step towards reducing unnecessary regulatory burdens and removing obstacles to growth and job creation. but i would point out that 'better regulation' should not be used as an excuse for deregulation to infringe workers' or consumers' rights. furthermore, i welcome the efforts to simplify the legislative process in its entirety while maintaining high standards. i believe that we need simpler, clearer legislation that is not complex and that can be applied in a simple way in order to better comply with the rules and better protect workers. i also strongly support further measures in the area of public procurement, such as encouraging smaller procurement packages, to help smes and micro-enterprises to participate in public procurement tenders. i am convinced that good impact assessments are an important tool to support decision-making and play an important role in better regulation.
written. ‒ the refit smart regulation programme seeks to consolidate better lawmaking, simplify eu law and reduce administrative and/or regulatory burdens. the refit programme is a key component of the commission's new better regulation strategy and the programme's performance review allows the assessment of progress made in all policy areas identified by the commission for each initiative. i welcome this package of measures and the commission's continued commitment to the better regulation programme and that this measure does not seek to deregulate certain policy areas or to undermine values that are important to us, starting with social protection, environmental protection and fundamental rights, one of which is the right to health. i would stress that this package of measures leads to greater transparency which can lead to a more efficient functioning of the eu and to greater trust of civil society in the eu. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the refit regulation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the refit regulation.
written. - i support the report by ms kaufmann. we need to have a strong focus on better regulation in the eu and in that respect i think the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) is useful. the programme will remove regulatory obstacles, improve and simplify the legislative process and thus enable policy objectives to be achieved with the least administrative obstacles possible, in line with eu principles such as proportionality and subsidiarity. i think it is necessary to identify what are the obstacles and ineffective measures, and it is also not in dispute that better regulation will send a signal to eu citizens who perceive the eu as too bureaucratic. the european parliament must take action and send a strong message that it must be consulted when adopting such measures and that the mutual trust of the european institutions must not be jeopardised. i am particularly in favour of measures to tackle over-regulation, while stressing the need to guarantee predictability, legal certainty and transparency. i'm not sure.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) is a key component of the commission's new strategy to better legislate, simplify eu law and reduce administrative burden. there is too much red tape across the european union and legislation needs to be simplified while maintaining high standards. furthermore, it is important to include the implementation and application of union acts at european as well as national level in order to ensure good governance, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the achievement of those objectives requires the cooperation of all the institutions of the european union, the member states and stakeholders. the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the application of this regulation. i believe it is in the interest of the citizens of the european union that legislation should be simpler and clearer.
written. ‒ the regulatory fitness and performance programme is an important part of the commission's legislative progress. it ensures that too much bureaucracy does not slow down the work of the eu institutions and helps to make decisions in all eu institutions. it also ensures legal certainty for citizens and businesses and regulates the implementation of eu acts and regulations in the member states. it is based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and advocates better compliance and protection of workers in the eu. i support the report on the programme for the adequacy and effectiveness of the regulations. the programme simplifies eu administration and legislation, assesses impacts and uses an advanced control system, which is very important in connecting eu legislation with citizens. i believe that the interaction of all eu institutions is key to reducing bureaucracy and increasing efficiency.
written. ‒ the regulatory fitness and performance programme is a key component of the commission's new strategy to consolidate better law-making, simplify eu law, reduce administrative and regulatory burdens and move towards good governance. given the excessive level of bureaucracy at all levels of the european union, i believe that better regulation should embrace the 'culture' of public administration at all levels of the european union. i believe that dialogue with citizens, social partners and other stakeholders from the economic and civil society sectors will contribute to ensuring transparent, effective and coherent legislation in the european union, which is why i supported the report on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit): state of play and outlook. i would stress that the commission's strategy emphasises the importance of social dialogue and respect for the autonomy of the social partners and that the programme does not intend to deregulate certain policy areas and to compromise values such as social protection, environmental protection and fundamental rights.
written. ‒ i would like to thank christel schaldemos for her excellent work on this report. better regulation is one of the main objectives. it is particularly important in the area of the internal market and consumer protection to facilitate cross-border unloading, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on towards better regulation of the single market (2015/2089 ((ini)) as it makes a number of recommendations on mechanisms to improve regulation of the internal market, such as implementation, supervision, how to deal with problems, etc. europe needs a strong internal market, free from unnecessary regulations and obstacles. improving single market regulation does not mean abolishing all regulations or reducing the level of ambition of regulations, but rather eliminating unnecessary regulations, red tape and negative effects while achieving a competitive regulatory environment that encourages employment and entrepreneurship in europe. there is a great responsibility on the shoulders of all the european institutions. the imperative is a single market that does not place too much pressure on or threaten production, innovation and trade, and that creates jobs and growth.
written. ‒ better regulation of the single market is a shared responsibility of all eu institutions. good legislation is no guarantee that the single market will work efficiently and there is a need to work actively towards an efficient and effective functioning of the market. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. i supported the report because better regulation of the single market is key to boosting competitiveness and creating jobs.
‒ croatia's accession to the european union opened the door to a single market of 500 million consumers for croatian producers and industry. many have expanded their business beyond the borders of the republic of croatia in these three years, with more or less success, because it is not easy to break through to customers in the competition of products and services from the other 27 european countries. however, the advantages of the common single market contribute to the increased competitiveness of european and thus croatian products on the international market. although the single market is a key instrument for generating economic growth and job creation in the union, more than 20 years after its formal establishment, the single market framework is still fragmented, mainly due to the fact that member states have not fully transposed union rules into national law or have not implemented them in a quality manner. i support this report in its call on the commission and the member states to work even harder to better regulate the single market and to better integrate it for the sake of shared benefits such as increased competitiveness, which contributes to the creation of new jobs and the necessary economic growth.
written. ‒ the european single market is a key instrument for driving economic growth and creating jobs. i believe that good legislation contributes to the well-being of citizens, fosters competitiveness, creates jobs, and the growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, while providing consumers with a high level of protection, and that this must be done in a way that encourages rather than undermines the european economy. good legislation does not guarantee just one stage in the process, but effective action throughout the policy development process. i therefore stress the importance of all the institutions of the european union in improving legislation in the single market. shared responsibility leads to the common good, a strong and vital single market, the long-term growth of europe and thus the prosperity of its citizens. in the light of the above, i support the report on 'towards better regulation of the single market', which seeks to improve the regulation of the single market, and which is based on the idea of shared responsibility.
written. - i support the report by anneleen van bossuyt. improving the regulation of the single market is a shared responsibility of all the eu institutions, as it is a key instrument for driving economic growth and job creation in the european union. the european commission should take into account the recommendations contained in this resolution in its future internal market strategy in order to contribute positively to the creation of a competitive regulatory environment through the strengthening, modification or better promotion of certain instruments. a harmonised and regulated eu single market must be the priority of our actions and we must believe in the causal link between good legislation and the well-being of citizens, the promotion of competitiveness, the creation of new jobs and the growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. a more harmonised market would help the republic of croatia to revive production and would be a fertile ground for stimulating growth, trade and innovation. in that context, i am giving a positive response to this resolution which would boost rather than threaten the european economy.
written. ‒ the report on 'towards better regulation of the single market' highlights the lower rate of implementation of existing legislation in the member states, due to the subsidiarity mechanism which does not leave national parliaments enough time to consider in detail the various aspects of implementation and how to measure the success of the implementation of legislation in the different areas of the single market. the commission also stresses the need to establish a single market for services and warns that digital innovation is developing rapidly, which requires changes to existing legislation. despite all the arguments put forward in the report, i believe that the single market is well functioning and that there is no need to amend the existing regulations proposed in this report and, accordingly, i have not supported this report.
written. ‒ improving the single market regulation is a shared responsibility and priority of all the eu institutions. better regulation of the single market and full and proper implementation of legislation are needed to contribute to competitiveness, job creation for eu citizens, economic growth and innovation. the emphasis is on legislation, as not all member states have transposed eu regulations into national legislation or are implementing them. furthermore, the principle of subsidiarity is central to the regulation of the single market, which implies the involvement of national, even regional parliaments, with the aim of achieving better political dialogue. in view of the above, i support this report. i believe that effective and efficient regulation of the single market, as the main instrument for driving economic growth in the european union, is of paramount importance for the long-term growth and competitiveness of the european union.
written. ‒ the commission's report 'towards better regulation of the single market' examines the single market in the interests of consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the importance of legislation in the whole process is noted, given that some 20 years have passed since the creation of the common market and not all member states have yet transposed eu regulations into national legislation. the commission should be able to take into account the specificities of the union's financial instruments and the specificities of the member states' financial instruments. the single market should encourage production, innovation and trade-led economic growth in order to create new jobs within the union. i believe that instruments should be introduced to achieve this objective and that is why i support this report. i believe that all the benefits that the digital revolution has brought us are not fully recognized or utilized to help achieve these goals. monitoring and impact assessment are just some of the instruments the eu should use to identify negative impacts, reduce redundant regulation and weaken the role of the administration.
written. ‒ i support this initiative because i believe it is necessary to explain to young people why the eu exists and what the main objectives of european integration are. euroscepticism is on the rise, but the reasons for this are not rational but populist. schools can be one of the ways in which objective information can be disseminated to counter euroscepticism.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on eu learning in schools (2015/2138(ini)), as it is necessary to continue european integration, including common standards for learning about the european union in schools. we are witnessing that few citizens know much about the eu, the european institutions and, for example, the common european history. the european parliament has been a key player in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and has been a key player in the fight against racism and xenophobia. a minimum common level of education on european issues is needed because integration is not only made up of, for example, states, institutions, laws, markets, etc., but above all citizens who understand the common meaning of creating a european environment. in this respect, the member states have an important role to play in supporting, reviewing and updating their education systems and all eu-related curriculum elements at all levels of education. beyond such a process, i believe it is extremely important to include, alongside the national aspect of education, the obligation to implement the regional and local dimensions of education in order to 'build' european identity while preserving the local and regional dimensions of the identity of the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ according to the 2014 eurobarometer public opinion survey, 44% of eu citizens feel that they have a limited understanding of how the eu works, 52% of europeans feel that their voice in the eu does not carry any weight, and insufficient knowledge of the european union and its concrete added value can contribute to the image of a lack of democracy and lead to pervasive euroscepticism in member states and candidate countries. most member states have integrated teacher training to teach about the eu into their curricula and programmes. the report highlights the need to enhance the visibility of the european union in teaching materials and extracurricular activities and to strengthen integration, given the impact it has on the daily lives of its citizens. the eu dimension in education should enable pupils not only to acquire knowledge and develop a sense of belonging and european citizenship, but also to engage in critical thinking about the eu, including learning about: the eu's core values based on the rule of law and human rights, the eu's governance and decision-making processes and how they affect member states and their own democratic participation. i supported this report because it points to the importance of better understanding the functioning of the european union, understanding eu decisions and how they affect the daily lives of citizens, resulting in better social integration and strengthening european values.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution because i believe that education about the eu's common history contributes to a better understanding of our different cultures and traditions, and this all contributes to the unity of our vibrant and numerous community of peoples. in addition to educating children about the history of the eu, it is essential to foster critical thinking and social awareness in every eu citizen. i welcome the resolution as it calls on the commission to continue to support efforts to develop and promote the different dimensions of the eu through education, but also the mobility of education stakeholders. in addition, i believe it is necessary to encourage a better use of new communication technologies and media, including social media. according to the 2014 eurobarometer, 44% of eu citizens believe they have a limited understanding of how the eu works, which also affects the citizens' response to the european parliament elections. the lack of interest and will contributes to the image of a lack of democracy and leads to euroscepticism. croatia is one of the seven countries where the turnout for the 2014 european parliament elections has increased, although it is still a very low turnout.
written. ‒ education is a fundamental human right and a public good, whose main role is to form fully aware citizens and to prepare individuals for life and active citizenship in increasingly complex, demanding and integrated societies that are also increasingly multicultural. as in 2014, 44% of eu citizens felt they had a limited understanding of how the eu works and 52% of europeans felt their voice in the eu had no weight, i want to highlight the increasing importance of the european dimension in education across disciplines, levels and types of education. in particular, i stress that the eu dimension in education should enable pupils not only to acquire knowledge and develop a sense of belonging and european citizenship, but also to engage in critical thinking about the eu. in the context of the social and political effects of the crisis the eu has been facing lately, strengthening dialogue in schools, associations and other public spaces seems more important than ever. for this reason, i welcome the report on learning about the eu in schools, as including the european dimension in education empowers european citizenship and promotes intercultural, non-discriminatory and inclusive education in schools and universities.
written. ‒ i support the report by damian draghić on learning about the eu in schools the fact that, according to the 2014 eurobarometer opinion poll, 52% of europeans believe that their voice in the eu has no weight is truly problematic. in the last european parliament elections, only 42.61% of eu citizens voted, indicating a lack of awareness of the european union which can lead to a lack of democracy and growing euroscepticism in the member states. therefore, i believe that an exchange of eu dialogues in schools, society and public spaces is necessary to restore the faith of our citizens in the european project. we need to start with the youngest generations in a way that increases eu education in schools that will help them live and work in a complex and globalised world. i am aware that this will involve a great deal of investment, but it is the only way to close the gap between the votes of eu citizens and those of the eu institutions. i'm not sure.
written. ‒ i supported the report on eu learning in schools, as statistics show that europeans' awareness of the european union is at a devastating level, which is best reflected in the response to the european parliament elections due to the poor perception of the importance of voting. education is a fundamental human right, and the aims of education include preparing individuals for life and active citizenship in complex, multicultural societies. the main objective of the project is to develop a european union-wide approach to education and training, which will be based on the principles of the european charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights. the role of teaching staff is essential and they need to be encouraged to be mobile, to teach each other and to share best practices. the report calls on the commission to design and prepare a common framework and to prepare guidelines with concrete examples for learning about the union, for both pupils and teachers. the report cites erasmus+, europe for citizens and creative europe as programmes that have shown excellent results and should be continued, with a greater focus on their qualitative outcome and a broader approach to mobility.
written. ‒ most eu member states have integrated learning about the european union into their curricula and teacher training programmes. the european union is shaped by its member states with their own unique history and culture, and there is an inseparable link between the union and the member states. the european union is currently facing a number of challenges, including the economic and financial crisis, which are putting its institutions and common values at risk. in this respect, the concept of european identity is emphasised. most eu citizens are not familiar with or have limited knowledge of the way the eu and its institutions work, so it is not surprising that euroscepticism is on the rise and that citizens feel distanced from the european project. to inform the citizens of the european union, the eu dimension in school education needs to be strengthened, and for this reason i support this report. i believe it is important that all member states integrate the eu dimension into school education in order to impart relevant knowledge, skills and abilities to pupils and to create a sense of belonging and a stronger sense of community.
written. ‒ given that according to a 2014 survey as many as 44% of eu citizens do not understand how the eu works, the commission's report proposed introducing learning about the european union in schools. it sets out the roles of the eu as a whole and the roles of the member states. member states should certainly adapt their education systems and the union should work towards harmonising and coordinating them. i support this report and its proposals, primarily because i think that citizens are not aware of the importance of elections to the european parliament and how important their vote really is. if children were taught about the eu and its institutions from an early age, the most important awareness would also be awakened, namely that we are all european citizens. the european union should therefore be visible in the teaching material throughout the school. it also encourages multicultural tolerance and motivates children to learn foreign languages.
written. ‒ this report openly calls on the member states of the european union to encourage the creation of a sense of belonging to the european union and the creation of a european identity through school textbooks, curriculum, teaching aids, teacher training, extracurricular and similar political education activities. while i believe that citizens of the european union should be educated about the european union and its institutions, i believe that the introduction of the proposed programmes, instruments and activities will not provide an objective view of history, nor a free development of awareness and a faithful representation of the european reality. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the 'european citizens' initiative is a key element of the european union's strategy to promote citizenship and the european union's citizens' rights. in addition, education and training should remain the responsibility of the member states and the european union should never interfere in this sector. moreover, i believe that member states should take advantage of the benefits of membership of the european union to further strengthen and promote their own national identities.
written. ‒ erasmus has proven itself over the years as an outstanding student training programme. erasmus+ also has an additional dimension that improves educational opportunities for all. i support this report.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on erasmus+ and other measures to encourage mobility in the field of vocational education and training a lifelong learning approach, as i consider this programme to be extremely important in vocational training and the acquisition of skills by young people needed on the labour market, but i also see this programme as contributing to a better understanding of the european reality by young people, to the acceptance of the european idea and european values. it is particularly important that this contributes to the transfer of knowledge between those countries which have a very high quality of vocational education and which have succeeded, thanks to this, in almost eliminating youth unemployment, and the less successful member states. it is important to facilitate the implementation of mobility under the erasmus+ programme by taking measures to increase the success rate of applications, by simplifying the development and use of electronic mobility management tools, by raising awareness of the value of mobility programmes in all general and vocational education and training institutions in the union.
written. ‒ lifelong learning and vocational education and training are key to achieving better employment prospects, especially for the long-term unemployed. erasmus+ is the programme in the field of education, training, youth and sport for the period 2014-2020. the area of education, training, youth and sport can make a significant contribution to addressing the major socioeconomic challenges facing europe by the end of the decade, as well as to implementing european policies for growth, jobs, equality and social inclusion. the european funds allocated to erasmus+ and vocational education and training programmes are not proportionate to the number and needs of persons interested in mobility under those programmes and member states should promote bilateral agreements that complement the activities of erasmus+ and european vocational education and training programmes and thus increase the mobility of young europeans. it is important to facilitate the implementation of mobility under the erasmus+ programme by taking measures to increase the success rate of applications, simplify the development and use of electronic mobility management tools and reduce excessive and complex administrative burdens, as excessive bureaucracy in schools and universities involved in the programme hinders the swift implementation of the programme. erasmus+ contributes to better education, training and greater mobility of young people, which are the union's objectives in economic and social terms, and i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ i support the introduction of erasmus+ to replace previous programmes with the aim of making progress in employment and vocational education, especially today when in some areas of europe we have extremely high rates of youth unemployment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. this requires bringing existing instruments such as europass, which is not sufficiently promoted but offers information on vocational education and training, closer to the citizens of the european union. i think that by expanding and upgrading the programme, students would have more information about qualifications, jobs and companies and would thus find jobs more easily. mobility paves the way for the employment of young people and of all the unemployed, which is why i support the promotion of these measures. the establishment of a permanent and sustainable system that is fully operational encourages free movement and the acquisition of skills which would be of great benefit to young people.
written. ‒ mobility for education and training is important for personal development, social inclusion of young people, multicultural dialogue, tolerance, the ability to work in an intercultural environment and active citizenship, and its potential to contribute to high-quality education and employability is clearly demonstrated. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the measures in force. non-formal and informal education and training can make a significant contribution to addressing current lifelong learning challenges, such as early school leaving, unacceptable numbers of young people not in employment, education and training. education is a fundamental human right and a public good that should be equally accessible to all. i stress the importance of a common european area of education based on a strong mobility component. the commission and member states and eu agencies such as cedefop should take measures to improve vocational education and training programmes linked to mobility.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague, mr ernest maragall, on erasmus+ and other measures to promote mobility as a lifelong learning approach. the erasmus+ mobility programme has marked a major step forward in the concept of european higher education, but mobility in terms of vocational education and training is still less widespread, and it is precisely this mobility that is the key instrument in the fight against unemployment. i consider it relevant and necessary to increase the compatibility between different vocational education and training systems and the recognition of skills and competences acquired in enterprises in different member states. as this mobility programme increases employability, makes it easier to find a job, and provides the skills and experience needed in today's highly competitive eu labour markets, i call on member states to promote erasmus+ programmes as much as possible in order to raise awareness of it.
written. ‒ i supported the report on erasmus+ and other measures to encourage mobility in vocational education and training a lifelong learning approach, as it talks about the next steps in improving existing erasmus+ programmes, emphasising that the programme must be more accessible to vulnerable groups and people with special needs. i think that a very important part of the report is the simplification of the process of recognising and validating skills and competences acquired in companies or training centres in different member states, and that is precisely the burden of deciding whether to apply for the programme. the report states that in non-formal and informal learning, tools such as europass and ecvet should be used more effectively. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's policy on mobility. in this draft report, parliament calls for additional measures from the european social fund (esf) and the erasmus+ programme and for good coordination of all measures at all levels, namely national, regional and local planning.
written. ‒ existing mobility initiatives have contributed to the participants' civic values and sense of belonging to european values as well as their academic skills and employment opportunities. there is a strong importance of education systems in developing academic as well as personal skills, such as self-confidence, critical thinking, persistence and motivation. however, there are certain problems in the implementation of erasmus+ mobility measures, such as the reduction of funds and the lack of information and skills of school and faculty staff. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the application of the rules on the recognition of professional qualifications. in view of the above, i support this report. i would stress the need to develop and improve measures to facilitate access to erasmus+ mobility activities for vulnerable groups and persons with special needs. i also think it is important to have good communication with entrepreneurs in order to further recognise the experience gained through the mobility programme.
written. ‒ mobility is important for personal development and develops tolerance for other cultures. it increases the social inclusion of young people in society and promotes active citizenship. the concept of mobility was created, among other things, to reduce the number of young unemployed people and to enable contacts between young people and employers. however, it is clear that mobility does not play a predominant role in vocational education and training. i therefore support parliament's proposal because i believe that mobility should be further strengthened. the eu-level is crucial to enable better coordination and organisation of mobility programmes. the commission should also be able to provide support to the member states in the implementation of the union's policy on youth. secondly, it is necessary to recognise and validate the outcomes of mobility achieved through formal and non-formal learning. i see one of the main objectives as enabling even more young people to be mobile through different forms of funding.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of the union in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies, as i support the conclusions of the report, in particular: to draw on existing best practices at european and national level for the development of a european code of conduct on transparency, integrity and accountability; where it calls for the adoption of an interinstitutional agreement to formalise a 'financial dialogue' to be organised at the request of the european parliament in order to establish guidelines for the adoption and harmonisation of european positions in the run-up to major international negotiations; where it calls on european representatives to pay particular attention in international negotiations to the consistency and coherence between international requirements and the adopted and binding financial standards of the eu legislature; where it calls on the commission and the agencies of the european member states to develop their representation in the eu and the world; where it calls for the eu to be involved in the implementation of the external dimension of the financial regulation and calls for the commission to be involved in the democratic and accountable implementation of the eu's external financial management over the next few years; and where it calls for the commission to be involved in the implementation of the external dimension of the eu and the financial regulation of the european union oversight of the world economy;
written. ‒ the report deals with the way the eu works in international organisations that are political or technical in nature. in particular, it seeks to answer the questions of who makes decisions, who manages the financial aspect in the eu and whether national parliaments have influence in decisions. the free movement of capital requires a stable financial system at both supranational and international levels to allow further investment and growth, while the euro and the euro area must be able to protect their strategic interests. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the implementation of the union's internal market. the report proposes further clarification of the nature of the eu's work in each organisation and how it operates and is financed, in order to ensure equal interests for all in the eu, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ better international regulatory cooperation and greater involvement of the european parliament are essential to achieve better alignment of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. in this regard, it is necessary to define the competence of each organisation and to introduce comprehensive standards of democratic legitimacy, transparency, accountability and legitimacy. the public, i believe, should have access to documents, and the staff of global institutions should be selected on the basis of skill. the involvement of the wider society in international discussions on financial and monetary authorities, in particular consumer and employee representatives, must be allowed. i think the eu should increase its influence in multilateral bodies and be a catalyst for discussion on issues like systemic and emerging risks that threaten the global economy. i support the report's proposals for the development of a european code of conduct, the active involvement of national parliaments in monitoring the positions taken by representatives of their countries and the commission's greater accountability to the european parliament. finally, i believe that the commission must be more accountable to citizens when representing the union in international bodies, and that is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ the treaties provide that every citizen of the union and every natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state has the right of access to documents of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union, whatever their medium. the diversity of legal structures and modes of financing and functioning of international economic organisations and bodies makes comprehensive monitoring difficult, although consistency in the way they are financed and function is essential to ensure a level playing field at international level. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are complied with. i am concerned about the lack of coherence due to the fragmentation and diversity of organisations and bodies and the delay in implementing internationally agreed rules and guidelines. better policy alignment and coordination among global institutions is needed. i welcome the initiative of the european institutions and agencies and the member states to promote the accountability of each european representative to democratically elected bodies.
written. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague sylvie goulard on the role of the eu in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. the stability of the financial system is crucial for the proper allocation of resources for growth and employment. i believe that a coordinated eu strategy needs to be developed within financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies in order to enable the union to take a coordinated stance and increase its influence in the decision-making process. it is necessary to promote a single and inclusive european approach that could be better achieved through a regular and formalised 'financial dialogue' organised in the european parliament with the aim of establishing guidelines for the adoption of european positions prior to major international negotiations, ensuring that those positions are known and ensuring that follow-up action is taken. it is also essential that the eu actively promotes the reform of international economic and financial institutions, so that their functioning becomes more democratic and transparent, bringing them closer to citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ a stable financial system that contributes to a good allocation of resources for growth and employment is in the common interest. it depends on the ability to formulate and enforce standards and codes of conduct at transnational level. the diversity of the many international organisations is such that, for the purpose of coherence, it is necessary to clarify the areas of competence, the legal nature of decisions and to define their priorities more clearly. this is why enhanced international regulatory cooperation with strong involvement of the european parliament is needed. it is important that the eu takes a more active role in the process of global economic governance and institutional reforms are needed to achieve consistent representation of the european union in international bodies. i support the report on the role of the union in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. i consider it important to increase the union's influence in the decision-making process within international institutions with a view to increasing transparency and democracy.
written. ‒ the eu's role in international institutions is crucial for the stability of the entire financial system. each eu member state has its own system of banks and markets linked to the financing of the economy, in which the eu must intervene to provide a framework for financial stability. in addition, the eu ensures transparency and publicly available information to preserve democratic legitimacy. since the beginning of the crisis, it has been monitoring and solving problems in the banking mechanisms. i support the report on the role of the union in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. i believe it brings further progress in the formation of the single market, strengthening the eu economy and the financial sector. it also helps reduce red tape and speed up the whole system. this strengthens the overall coherence between the eu institutions, thereby also promoting employment in the interests of eu citizens.
written. ‒ financial stability is in the common interest of all countries, including those outside the european union, because it affects the proper allocation of resources for growth and employment, and as we all know, this stability has never existed and is the cause of the current crisis. but regardless of all this, i believe that member states should retain the right to act independently and should not give up their national interests in international financial forums in favour of just one member state of the european union. i believe that the european commission should not represent the member states of the european union and that a large number of votes from the member states of the european union in the financial forums is an advantage. the role of the european commission is to protect the interests of the european union and its citizens in relation to issues that cannot be effectively resolved at national level, and this is not the case, and therefore i believe that a supranational level of control of the financial system will not help to resolve the current crisis and i voted against this report.
written. ‒ small-scale fisheries are of vital importance to the eu's coastal regions. the key is its economic impact, and if the rules are followed, it is also an environmentally sustainable way of fishing. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the fishing industry in croatia is facing a serious crisis, with the loss of jobs and the loss of jobs in the fisheries sector. in conclusion, i support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fisheries in fisheries-dependent areas because i believe that this type of fisheries should be given strong and decisive support. small-scale coastal fishing is a way of life, a tradition, an environmentally sustainable way of fishing, a source of employment and a factor of stability for individual member states. unfortunately, there is still no common definition of small-scale fisheries at european level, and the only criteria used are the size and power of fishing vessels, which distinguish between small-scale and large-scale fisheries. i believe that more should be done to promote sustainable fishing practices and to strengthen the role of fishing-based communities in local development. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant aid to fishermen who have been caught by vessels flying their flag.
written. ‒ small-scale coastal fishing is one of the most important forms of fishing for the european union. it represents a tradition, a way of life and a source of food and income for the fishing population. for this reason, it is important to ensure a high level of employment and sustainable development in areas dependent on fisheries. small-scale coastal fishing is environmentally sound and provides the economic basis for the conservation and development of coastal and island communities. in the outermost regions, it contributes to economic development and plays a supplying role at local level. the new common fisheries policy recognises the importance of coastal and island regions dependent on fisheries, which implies the need to ensure a decent standard of living for those engaged in fishing activities. states must promote greater diversification and innovation to encourage more fishing activities and reduce the pressing problem of depopulation of island and coastal areas. i supported the report by mrs tomašić because croatia is witnessing the depopulation of the island and the ageing of the workforce in the fisheries sector. innovation and diversification are therefore key to the recovery of coastal and littoral areas.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on innovation and diversification in small-scale coastal fishing because it addresses the key problems faced by the people of the mediterranean countries of europe, where small-scale coastal fishing has been present in this area for thousands of years, is a way of life and is an integral part of the cultural and traditional intangible heritage. as i have emphasised on several occasions in my discussions, i believe that the objectives of protecting biodiversity and marine resources require a regional approach, taking into account all the geographical, biological, sociological and economic specificities. i would particularly stress the need to halt the current negative trends in the depopulation of coastal areas and islands and to strike the right balance between the interests of the local population and the protection of biodiversity and marine resources, as this is the only way to contribute to the desired objectives. in this respect, cooperation with the local population is essential, since the failure of an existing, perhaps overly restrictive, fisheries policy can lead to undesirable results and depopulation of the coastal and island areas as well as excessive depletion of marine resources, which is certainly not the purpose of the cfp.
written. ‒ given that there was a lapse in croatia's accession negotiations with the european union, we now have to fight for small fishermen through the institutions of the european union. it's not an easy road, and there are more steps. the first step was taken last week. this report contains a number of positive provisions which essentially call for the amendment of the existing provisions which recognise only professional and recreational fishing, which is why our small fishermen have been outlawed since last year. i am particularly pleased that the committee on fisheries has adopted all nine of the amendments i tabled, including this amendment which seeks to encourage the commission to allow the use of nets up to 150 metres from the shore by the population for non-commercial purposes. this is actually a step towards the provisions that already exist in a large number of eu countries, because they have protected small-scale fishing as a cultural heritage, which i also mentioned in the amendments, pointing out the problem of the loss of traditional fishing skills and knowledge due to regulations that are unfavourable to coastal communities. as this is a non-legislative report, which i certainly support, and in which parliament has articulated its position, i expect that within a year a legislative report will be submitted to the procedure which will finally amend the existing mediterranean regulation and its provisions which limit us.
written. - i support the report of my colleague ruža tomašić. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the measure to the coastal regions of the eu. in addition to ensuring high employment and being socially and environmentally sustainable, in coastal countries such as croatia, it is also a specific way of life. this is why i am calling for legislative change to protect coastal fisheries and to encourage diversity in fisheries, given the current decline in profitability and employment, to combat the marginalisation of fisheries in developing regions and to encourage the use of new innovative opportunities. to achieve this, i support the use of funds earmarked for innovation and blue growth.
written. ‒ i supported the report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fisheries in fisheries-dependent areas, as coastal fisheries are a very important form of fisheries in the territory of the member states and the existing regulation should be amended according to the principle of non-selective approach. diversification and innovation in the fisheries sector are the main pillars of further development. tourism, as a growing economic sector, also represents a potential when it comes to diversifying fisheries. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to an undertaking in a situation where it is unable to meet its obligations under the treaty. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the measures they adopt in the context of the common fisheries policy. the report focuses on the need to propose new frameworks and amendments to the regulation on measures to protect fisheries resources in the mediterranean, the so-called mediterranean regulation, adopted in 2006. this regulation addresses issues of technical characteristics of gears and their use and needs to be aligned with the new cfp and the needs of coastal fisheries.
written. ‒ coastal fishing accounts for 80% of the european fleet and provides a high level of employment in coastal, island and outermost regions, and is an important socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. for most coastal and island areas, coastal fishing is a way of life and an important source of livelihood and requires specific measures and support to enable them to grow and develop. coastal fisheries are defined and classified differently in different member states and a clear definition of coastal and small-scale coastal or traditional fisheries is needed, which will be based on the socio-economic characteristics and specificities of the area. the 'innovation union' initiative is of particular importance for the development of the blue economy, as it is the largest research and innovation programme part-financed by the european union's investment and structural funds. it is therefore important to support projects enabling the development of coastal, island and outermost regions and to promote and support investment in innovation and diversification of fisheries. for these reasons, i support the report.
written. ‒ coastal fishing accounts for 80% of the european fleet and, together with shellfish harvesting, provides a very high employment rate in coastal, island and outermost regions, thus contributing to a socially and environmentally sustainable form of high-potential fisheries. furthermore, such fishing has a highly positive impact on the cultural heritage of coastal and island areas and on social characteristics. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp and will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp. in croatia, small-scale fishing is of particular importance because it is part of our identity and is crucial to the existence of the islanders. unfortunately, small-scale fishermen in croatia have been greatly harmed by the abolition of centuries-old practices and the use of traditional tools. i support this report because i believe it is important to protect and promote the development of coastal and remote regions, which must be given a certain benefit in view of their peripheral nature. it is also important to exploit the potential of assessment and coastal and littoral areas, which can be of great benefit for sustainable development, employment, energy autonomy and innovation. the commission should also encourage the creation of new innovative enterprises in regions that depend on fisheries, as their success can contribute to the entire maritime sector and retain or attract populations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on common rules for the application of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy because the situation in the sector has changed dramatically at world level, with new actors, such as china and taiwan, adopting aggressive policies to access marine resources. ships from such countries often have lower standards of environmental protection, safety, and compliance with international obligations, and thus an economic advantage over european ships. however, i believe that it is necessary to insist on sustainable fishing practices in order to strengthen environmental protection and social standards and to strengthen the role of the european union on the international scene as a promoter of sustainable management of marine resources. in this context, it is necessary to ensure the consistency and coherence of the union's external and internal fisheries policies. therefore, transparency of all activities, more effective control and surveillance measures and facilitated access to accurate scientific information and studies are needed.
written. ‒ at the time of the creation of the cfp, there were very few countries actively engaged in fishing activities outside european territorial waters. in the meantime, the situation has changed, with countries not only acting outside territorial waters but also actively cooperating with other member states in the fishery. the problem is that overfishing and the influence of economic powers such as china, south korea, and taiwan, which have aggressive policies, allow for non-compliance with regulations such as the markings on ships (flags, coats of arms, etc.). the strict implementation of common rules leading to improvements in economic, social and environmental sustainability contributes to a better position of the union on the market. that's why i supported the report.
written. ‒ better scientific information and data on catches and fishing effort outside eu waters, especially in the waters of certain coastal developing countries, is therefore needed. the eu must adopt and promote the highest environmental and social standards in its external fisheries-related activities (fishing, processing and marketing) and implement strict and effective control and surveillance measures, while ensuring transparency in all its activities. i welcome the opening up of the issue of the important role of women in the value chain, from financing to the marketing of fishery products, as these activities strengthen the economic and social empowerment of women fishermen in fisheries agreement countries. the transparency, i.e. the public availability of detailed data on catches and vessel activities and the established fishing protocols, is a priority for me and i strongly support this report. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's fisheries sector, in particular by examining the impact of the measures on the union's fisheries sector.
written. ‒ the eu is a large market for fishery products (including fish caught by the eu fleet and fish imported) and the largest importer of such products, accounting for 11% of total world fish production in terms of quantity and 24% of fishery products imports in terms of value. i stress the importance of ensuring that fisheries policy, environmental policy, trade policy and development cooperation are in line. i am concerned about the possible interruption of fishing activities between the two protocols in the event of the extension of the negotiations on the new protocol. i believe that consumers should be made aware of the economic, social and environmental conditions that prevail when fish are caught and processed.
written. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague linnéae engström on common rules for the implementation of the external dimension of the cfp, including fisheries agreements, as the eu has a key role to play in the global governance of seas and oceans the cfp must rest on an ambitious vision in line with the internal dimension set out in the basic regulation on the cfp. i think it is necessary to include a chapter on the external dimension of fisheries policy in the recent reform of the cfp regulation which will formally regulate partnership agreements in sustainable fisheries and fisheries under the auspices of regional fisheries management organisations. i welcome the support for the development of local communities whose livelihoods depend mainly on fishing and fisheries-related activities, as well as the need to support measures aimed at promoting the transfer of knowledge and skills, technology transfer, capacity management, multi-stakeholder partnerships and other investments for the benefit of the fishing industry. the eu should also promote dialogue with partner countries through sustainable fisheries partnership agreements to establish a regulatory framework to ensure that joint ventures in the fisheries, fish processing and marketing sectors, concluded with partners from the eu or other countries, do not compete with the local artisanal sector and contribute to the achievement of the development objectives of the country concerned and operate on a transparent basis. the act.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the external dimension of the new common fisheries policy covers international agreements and fisheries in areas beyond national jurisdiction. the european union is a leading global fishing power with a well-developed network of bilateral fisheries agreements that have a positive impact on fisheries management (fmos), the promotion of good practices and respect for human rights. the development of the fishing fleet of third countries and the coordination of fisheries policy, trade policy, environmental policy and development cooperation are of great importance. cooperation with partner countries is essential in terms of fisheries management, infrastructure construction and maintenance and improvement of fish supply with a view to guaranteeing food security for the population of partner countries. the stock levels were over-exploited until 2008 and decreased somewhat in 2011, and it is important to keep the stock levels within acceptable limits. the commission has also concluded that the fishing opportunities available to the union are limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks concerned. i support this report and believe that the external dimension of the common fisheries policy is important to raise social and environmental standards, both in the european union and in the partner countries.
written. ‒ the external dimension of the new common fisheries policy is of particular importance, covering international agreements and fisheries in areas beyond national jurisdiction. fisheries have a long history in the european union, which has for many years promoted good practice and respect for human rights. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was below the union industry's average sales prices in the union during the investigation period. in order to reduce overexploitation, it is essential to cooperate with third countries whose development of fishing fleets contributes to raising social and environmental standards. i support this report because i believe that environmental standards must also apply to the external fisheries of the european union. support should be provided to partner countries and their fisheries sectors, as cooperation has a positive impact on fisheries management, scientific research, infrastructure development and maintenance and many other areas. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on fisheries,
written. ‒ i supported the report on common rules for the application of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, including fisheries agreements, as it insists on the promotion of ecologically, socially and economically sustainable fisheries based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental stakeholders, in particular fisheries professionals. i believe that the european union, in its external fisheries-related activities, must promote its highest environmental and social standards and implement strict and effective control and surveillance measures. i would also stress the importance of coordination between fisheries policy, environmental policy, trade policy and development cooperation policy. i believe that the european union will promote measures that work for all to ensure the coherence between industrial and small-scale coastal fishing fleets, but also to avoid agreements on sustainable fisheries with countries that tolerate corruption.
madam president, terrorism, as we have heard, knows no bounds. it happened again on march 22, when jihadists struck at the heart of europe, spreading terror, killing 32 people and wounding hundreds of innocent people. these coordinated attacks have reawakened all of us europeans and made us aware that there is a threat at our core, and we politicians are not sufficiently prepared to deal with it. the symbolism of the attack in maelbeek, right up to the offices of the eu institutions, strikes at the very heart of the european project, exposes our vulnerability and sends a message that no one can overlook. madrid, london, paris twice, brussels are warning us. the eu, the european union, must remain a safe place and we must insist on applying all measures. we want to enjoy our freedoms and therefore cooperation is our strength. i agree with mr juncker, we need to exchange information, we need to urgently vote on the passenger name record directive, we need to standardise our directives, we need to act in a coordinated way. nota bene, i want to point out, you have to distinguish the ideology of islamic extremism from the religion of islam, i want to make that clear. we also need to monitor better both the external and internal borders, whatever anyone may have thought about this and the five thousand returnees from (the president took the floor.)
the question he asked by raising his blue card. thank you very much, mrs. schuca, for accepting my blue card. i would like to ask you, in particular, whether you agree with me that in addition to what we have to do ourselves within the european union, it is very important that we do it at our borders, especially in the western balkans. you have spoken about this, but i think that a lot needs to be done in the western balkans, and we all know the potential dangers that lie in bosnia and herzegovina, and perhaps in some other countries, but for bosnia and herzegovina we all know this well. do you agree with me that this is very important and that we need to do more in cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr jakovčić, i fully agree with you that south east europe is a potential hotspot, especially bosnia and herzegovina and we need to work together in bosnia and herzegovina. i fully understand what is happening there, i even have some data, because i think it is up to us politicians to help bosnia and herzegovina succeed on its european path as soon as possible and to prevent anything that could eventually happen from that hotbed.
madam president, until when will the crooks be faster than us, until when will the thieves be faster than us, until when will the terrorists be faster than us? i really wonder how some here can be against the creation of a common european intelligence body which will make it possible to fight really effectively against terrorism, but also effectively against the fraud and the thieves that are all around us. it all comes down to the same thing. somebody says yes, it was legal and it's some kind of tax evasion or money laundering. it doesn't matter because in the end we don't have that money here, and we're always talking about how we're going to get more money for all the problems that we face and all the problems that we're continually discussing in this room. i urge you, commissioner, to be very energetic in the coming months. you have our confidence and i believe in your efficiency.
madam president, the revelations in the panama papers have prompted several countries to open investigations. it's clear to everyone that the answer to tax evasion and money laundering is to adopt global standards and automatic data exchange between all the countries of the world. the problems with the panama papers were more than obvious. the loss of tax revenues of €50 to €70 million a year is a huge obstacle to the growth and development of eu countries. in march of this year, the special committee on tax rulings was attended by representatives of multinational companies, who welcomed the oecd's global standards that would help simplify and make tax rules more transparent, but preferred to keep information about their business confidential. the commission has today taken an important step forward and is requiring the disclosure of key information in the interest of respecting business secrets. this is an important step, and there are many more steps ahead and a special campaign to get transparency standards adopted at the level of all countries in the world.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, on behalf of the alde group, i thank you for this objective report, and i am sure that the world and europe would be in a worse situation if there were no common foreign, security and defence policy, but there are two major problems with this policy. the first is that she has very little in common. namely, of the 190 billion of total defence spending in europe, the member states, only about five billion is spent on joint investments and about seven billion on joint missions, which means that in fact only about 6.3% of total defence spending is spent jointly and this is a major weakness of the common security and defence policy. the second difficulty with this policy is that it lacks the legal instruments to act on the crises that affect them. no great power, no great non-european power, member of the security council, will make the decision that the european union, even if it had the strength, intervenes where it is not in their interest, and their interest does not necessarily have to be stability in the middle east, and often times there can be destabilization of the area and difficulties that the european union may have. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the eu is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy.
madam vice-president, ms mogherini, i thank you for another opportunity to have a very intensive dialogue with the european parliament in your activities, and believe me, all members appreciate this very much. in our foreign policy choices and in taking important positions as a global actor, i would like to highlight three issues that i think are important in the current context. the first is the interconnectedness of foreign security policy and our internal security, where the fight against terrorism and the effort to control the flow of migration are inextricably linked. the second is precisely in this context the specific relationship with turkey, where both stability in the region and the enlargement process and the control of migration and the surveillance of our external borders are mixed. and the third topic that we're following in detail is ukraine, where we've seen how in the netherlands a national referendum on the european issue has international implications. we all have a responsibility to better explain the foreign policy implications of our actions to national audiences.
mr. president, mrs. vice president mogherini, in the dynamic world we live in, we are witnessing a new division of the cards, and in that division it is clear that cuba is gradually but surely reintegrating into the political and economic structures of the western hemisphere because of course the united states has a dominant position. this fact, however, does not mean that we should ignore the historical ties that bind cuba to europe. in this context, the political dialogue and cooperation agreement provides a framework for the development of these relations in various dimensions. europe's role must continue to be to promote and respect human rights, which, unfortunately, is not yet the case in cuba. we do not want and we must not forget the winners of the sahara prize, the political dissidents and the political prisoners, and there are still some of them in cuba. equally important, in the gradual opening of the cuban economy, the benefits of this opening are not limited to the ruling elite of castricism, as was often the case in post-communist societies in eastern europe. these are some of the elements that european support for the transition process in cuba must take into account, but europe must in any case be present and involved.
mr president, i thank my colleague mrs kalnieta for the excellent report which is our contribution to the eu's global strategy, which is being prepared under the leadership of high representative mogherini and which is expected to be adopted by the european council in june. the strategy should serve to ensure that the eu, while promoting the values of freedom, democracy, human rights, peace and solidarity, continues to lead in crisis management, addressing hybrid threats and challenges to the union and its citizens, and in partnership with other organisations and key countries such as the united states. we have recently adopted an enlargement and neighbourhood strategy and will soon be developing one, which together with this strategy will constitute the platform for our action in global governance based on respect for international law. we need to work on strengthening defence capabilities and a smarter sharing of defence budgets at member state level. a comprehensive approach to the union's external action must effectively bring together the full catalogue of available external action instruments, and the overall assessment of the eu's effectiveness will be measured by the success of our neighbourhood action, with key engagements in ukraine, syria, iran, north africa and the middle east peace process. the eu's external relations with russia, the fight against terrorism through a combination of internal and external security measures and the protection of external borders, which must be strengthened by migration control and a strong agreement with turkey, are also priorities. i expect the global strategy to clearly define ambitious but realistic objectives and provide concrete mechanisms for achieving them, with adequate budgetary resources. this will strengthen and confirm the eu's leadership at global level as an assertive and effective actor.
madam president, mr tusk, mr commissioner, it is precisely this debate today and the agreement with turkey that justifies the thesis that politics is the art of the possible. the fact is that this agreement is not perfect, that this agreement is not ideal, as you yourself have said, but it is already a concrete step because, as my colleague karas said, we would be talking today if it were not for this agreement. so we know that turkey is not the only solution, we know about the problems with turkey. we can freely ask whether turkey is a reliable partner. we know about the media problems, the minority problems. however, we obviously had to take some initiative and i'm okay with continuing with this. of course, there's not enough capacity initially, there's not enough officials on the greek-turkish border, that's evident from today's numbers. however, i think we must be united. from the beginning, we have said that our two main theses are solidarity, but also responsibility. i believe it's our responsibility to offer a solution. the balkan route is closed, that's a good move too. however, a route across the mediterranean is opening up. it's not good to build wires. we can't build a cable at sea, so we have to find a solution. i am in favour of continuing in this way, but of course it is not a solution in turkey alone, we must continue. i just have one question for mr. tusk. the question is, however, how do we intend to control the implementation of this agreement and the implementation of the use of these three plus three, or six billion euros?
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from sweden (volvo trucks) for dynamic assistance to redundant workers to be made available as soon as possible. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union producers in the union market. i support the fact that the swedish authorities provided support to the affected workers before the egf funding was approved. in this context, i believe that financial assistance from the european union is crucial to mitigate the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a form of assistance to people who have lost their jobs as a result of the effects of globalisation, structural change or the economic crisis. the purpose of the egf is to enable the unemployed to find work as quickly as possible, but it can also serve the self-employed, temporary and fixed-term workers. the egf may be used to provide assistance for counselling, vocational training and education, and the creation of entrepreneurial and business opportunities. in september 2015, sweden submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in order to make redundancies in 647 workers, 470 of whom were declared technically surplus at the company volvo trucks. the main reason for the redundancies is the emergence of asian truck manufacturers, which forces volvo trucks to reduce costs and increase efficiency in order to compete. the egf will be used to support the development of the social economy and the social inclusion of disadvantaged groups, including those who are disadvantaged in their economic and social development. i supported the report because i believe that the egf is a key instrument to help redundant workers and to respond to global challenges.
written. ‒ over the last year, we have voted in favour of a number of decisions on the use of the european fund to help workers who found themselves in an unenviable position during the global financial and economic crisis. major structural changes in world trade flows caused by globalisation and the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis have again led to significant losses - this time to volvo in sweden. as many as 647 volvo employees were declared redundant. i support the request of the swedish authorities to grant them a financial contribution from the globalisation adjustment fund of eur 1 793 710 per 500 workers. it should be noted that workers declared redundant are likely to encounter difficulties in finding a job, as they do not possess the competences sought in the regional labour market. the project will therefore need to work closely with education and employment organisations to promote entrepreneurship and to improve the skills and competences of jobseekers that meet the needs of the future employer. the large size of the region may also require users to travel a lot. this financial assistance is therefore necessary to alleviate the disadvantage of workers declared redundant and to enable them to re-enter the labour market.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers declared redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a consequence of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or as a consequence of a new global and economic crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the commission has also proposed to mobilise the egf in order to provide additional support for the rehabilitation of workers in the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing sector. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to fully benefit from the measures in force. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to provide the egf with financial assistance for the restructuring of the steel industry in the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to support workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and the global financial and economic crisis with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. on 16 september 2015, sweden submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies of a large number of workers declared redundant at volvo trucks and at four suppliers and further manufacturers in sweden. sweden fulfils the conditions of the egf regulation and is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of 60% of the total cost. the egf should be mobilised in order to provide the necessary financial contribution. that's why i supported this request.
written. ‒ 647 workers were made redundant by 24 june 2015 at volvo trucks and its 4 suppliers and other manufacturers. sweden submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund on 16 september 2015. the impact of globalization has brought asian manufacturers closer to the former leaders of the commercial vehicle sector (north america, japan and europe). the development of the third country manufacturers of commercial vehicles led to an increase of 10,7% in imports of commercial vehicles into the eu. all of this led to the layoffs of workers in sweden. i support the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. i believe that we need to help workers who have been made redundant as a result of the changes brought about by globalisation and to reintegrate them into the labour market. the commission also found that the decrease in the number of employees in the union industry was due to the decrease in the number of employees in the union industry. it not only supports the european economy, but also cares for eu citizens and reduces the high unemployment rate.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people who have lost their jobs as a result of significant structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, such as the closure of large companies or the relocation of production outside the eu, or as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. under this programme, sweden has applied for a financial contribution of € 1,793,710 following the redundancies of 647 workers in the volvo group truck operation in upper norrland. while i support all measures to create jobs and growth, i do not think that the european globalisation adjustment fund is an effective tool for reintegrating workers into the labour market and i voted against this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund technical assistance at the initiative of the commission, as i fully support the commission's proposal to allocate eur 70 000 for technical assistance, in particular for the evaluation and monitoring of the egf's performance. i also support the activities to standardise the application process for mobilising the egf and to further network and exchange information around the egf. in this context, better linking of the parties involved in the submission and processing of egf applications and increasing the awareness and visibility of the egf is needed. i believe that the european union must provide dynamic and rapid assistance to the workers affected, and i therefore support this report.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide support for self-employed persons and workers who have been declared technically surplus as a result of major structural changes brought about by globalisation and the economic crisis. at the initiative of the commission, in accordance with article 11 (1) of the egf decision, a maximum of 0,5% of the maximum annual amount of the egf may be allocated each year to technical assistance. the proposed decision to mobilise the egf shall be adopted jointly by the european parliament and the council. the commission requested the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the following activities: the implementation of monitoring and data collection, public information on the egf, the holding of egf seminars, the creation of a database with all data and the provision of administrative and technical assistance. i supported the report because it allows for better networking between member states and with the technical activities of the commission it will be clearer how to use the egf more efficiently.
written. ‒ the main purpose of this decision is to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and to finance technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. networking and research will provide a quick response to help in various ways workers who have become surplus in the labour market for some reason. the evaluation shall monitor the implementation of the measures provided for, the structure of the redundancies, and the exchange of information between member states in a faster and better manner, with a view to helping workers to find their way in the labour market and to finding a new job.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them to re-enter the labour market. i welcome the commission's proposal to mobilise the egf to provide eur 380 000 for technical assistance, the aim of which is to help finance monitoring and information, create knowledge base interfaces and advise member states on the use of egf funds, the implementation of accompanying measures and evaluation. this measure contributes to the provision of union support and financial assistance to workers declared redundant, which should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the role of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to provide support and assistance to workers who lose their jobs with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. the egf also provides temporary support to young people who are not in employment, education or training and who are in regions eligible under the youth employment initiative. the european globalisation adjustment fund may only be used in undertakings where 500 workers have lost their jobs and the maximum available annual budget is eur 150 million. the objective of this technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information, to advise member states on the use of egf resources, to provide administrative and technical assistance and to evaluate the regulations. i support this report and consider that technical assistance is essential to inform the citizens of the union about the possibilities of using the european globalisation adjustment fund.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people who have lost their jobs as a result of global trade trends caused by globalisation. the fund has a budget of eur 150 million and can only be used if more than 500 people have lost their jobs in one company. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the measures will further facilitate access to the fund and encourage various meetings and seminars on the possibilities of using the funds. i support the european parliament's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to pay for technical assistance. the european globalisation adjustment fund has an important role to play in ensuring the security of eu citizens in the event of job losses caused by globalisation. it boosts the eu economy and secures the labour market.
‒ the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns, the global financial and economic crisis and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. while i support all measures to create new jobs and growth, i consider that the european globalisation adjustment fund programme is not an effective tool for reintegrating surplus workers and i do not support its work in principle. for the reasons set out above, i do not support the commission's proposal to use additional appropriations of eur 380 000 for the coverage, monitoring and collection of data, information, knowledge base creation, administrative and technical support and evaluation activities of the european globalisation adjustment fund and i voted against this proposal.
written. ‒ i voted for the council position report on draft amending budget no 1/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016. new instrument for the provision of emergency support within the union, given that the huge influx of refugees and migrants in europe has created an emergency situation and it is necessary to complement existing instruments to meet humanitarian needs in the union. the commission estimates that eur 300 million will have to be allocated to this purpose in 2016, followed by eur 200 million in 2017 and 2018 respectively, based on the forecasts for the future influx of migrants and refugees. in addition, the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol should be increased in view of the current security situation in the european union, which requires additional resources.
written. ‒ the huge influx of refugees and migrants into europe has created an emergency situation in which large numbers of people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. the crisis response capacities of most of the affected member states are overloaded and this draft amending budget seeks to respond to that challenge. the eur 100 million in appropriations for emergency funding needs should initially be sufficient, but i think we will soon face the need for additional funds. i fully support the reinforcement of the european counter-terrorism centre in europol so that this agency can play a key role in the fight against terrorism in the eu, especially in the light of the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels. financing the payment of new staff should not be a problem at all. i join the calls on the commission to exclude from the 5% staff reduction plan all agencies whose work covers the areas of migration and security, as all these agencies are under-capacity. i fully support the purpose of the commission's draft amending budget proposal and the council's position, and i have supported this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ given the large influx of refugees and migrants, europe is in an emergency situation and a large number of people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the disaster on the humanitarian situation in the member states, including on the impact of the disaster on the humanitarian situation in the union. the aim of this proposal is to develop a budget structure and to complement existing instruments to meet humanitarian needs. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission also proposes, in the light of the current security situation, to increase the number of staff in the european counter-terrorism centre. i believe that the eu budget should be allocated to emergency aid in order to deal with the growing impact of the migrant crisis and to provide security for the citizens of the european union, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ a large number of refugees and migrants in europe are in need of urgent help. member states with the largest numbers of these people are not in a position to cope financially with such pressure. the commission therefore proposes the introduction of a new financial instrument which will greatly facilitate the current situation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of irregular migration in the past, but that the number of cases of irregular migration has been reduced by the number of cases of irregular migration. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's external borders. the commission proposal covers a period of three years. i support the commission's initiative to amend the budget because it is an emergency situation in europe. moreover, parliament, in its committee on budgets, adopted a motion for a resolution in which it accepted all the commission's proposals and called for the budget to be amended as soon as possible. the fight against terrorism and the migration crisis must be taken seriously and without hesitation, and they can only be resolved if we adopt new instruments.
written. ‒ i supported the commission's proposal to complement existing instruments to meet humanitarian needs in the european union. i consider this proposal to be of the utmost importance because there was no appropriate instrument at union level to respond to the humanitarian needs of disaster victims now in the territory of the european union. i believe that the new instrument will enable the union to act in a spirit of solidarity and to meet the basic needs of victims of disasters. i also support the commission's proposal to increase the staffing of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol and to make available the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations of eur 2 million.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the proposed appointment of mr jereb as a member of the court of auditors, on the basis that mr jereb has demonstrated his competence in the performance of his duties as deputy president of the court of auditors of the republic of slovenia and as supreme state auditor. the skills and competencies acquired during his professional career indicate that mr jereb is qualified for this post and that his independence is not in doubt. i trust that mr jereb will act responsibly and conscientiously as a member of the court of auditors and therefore i am voting in favour of this report.
written. ‒ the members of the court of auditors of the eu scrutinise the revenue and expenditure of all the union institutions and agencies. during 2016, the ten members of the court of auditors will end their term of office and new members will be appointed for a period of six years. to become members of the court of auditors, candidates shall first be heard by the committee on budgetary control, which shall give its opinion on the candidates. thereafter, each candidate shall be put to the vote in parliament's plenary session on the basis of a report from the committee. each member state submits a proposal for a candidate for a member of the court of auditors and the council decides on the list of the best candidates, who are then heard by the committee on budgetary control and finally confirmed by parliament. the candidate for a member of the court of auditors, samo jereb, is the president of the court of auditors of slovenia and was previously the auditor of the supreme court. given mr. jereb's nearly 20 years of experience, i supported the report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors is important for the supervision and control of the use of eu funds, and its independence and the quality of the work of judges are guarantees for the protection of the interests of all eu citizens. i supported the proposal to appoint sam jereb as a member of the court of auditors following the evaluation of the qualifications of the candidate by the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and following the hearing held. having devoted his entire 20-year career to auditing, jereb is ideally suited to this role. as deputy president of the court of auditors of slovenia, with a field of work covering all competences of the court of auditors of slovenia and all types of audits (financial audits, regularity/compliance audits and business performance audits), i consider that he has acquired the necessary knowledge, experience and skills to successfully perform the function of a member of the court of auditors.
written. - only jereb has devoted his entire twenty-year career to auditing. immediately after obtaining his diploma in november 1995, he was employed by a private audit firm and passed all stages of audit training and practical audit work. due to his work with utilities, he was called to the court of auditors of the republic of slovenia and as the supreme state auditor he headed the audit department. in its opening statement and in its replies to the questions of the members of the committee, jereb alone indicated that he believed that his extensive experience in public sector auditing, management and teaching experience and the conduct of joint or peer audits with sais were a key asset for the implementation of the activities of the european court of auditors.
written. ‒ having regard to the evaluation by the committee on budgetary control of the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in terms of the conditions set out in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having regard to the hearing of the council's candidate for a member of the court of auditors held by the committee on budgetary control on 15 march 2016, i have endorsed the appointment of mr sam jereb as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ the court of auditors has a unique role which involves instilling confidence in the democratic institutions of the european union. it is therefore important that all members of the court of auditors perform their duties in accordance with the highest expectations of eu citizens and contribute to the work of the court of auditors and to cooperation with the european parliament through their impartiality, objectivity and integrity. i support the draft report on the proposed appointment of sam jereb as a member of the court of auditors. the court of auditors has also been entrusted with the task of preparing and implementing the annual accounts of the european parliament and the council, the annual accounts of the european parliament and the court of auditors, the annual accounts of the european commission and the annual accounts of the european parliament and the council, the annual accounts of the european parliament and the court of auditors, and the annual accounts of the european parliament and the court of auditors.
‒ the european court of auditors should provide the european parliament with audit reports that cover topics of importance to parliament and that are timely and relevant and contain recommendations that can help to deliver added value to the expenditure of the european union budget. to that end, the auditor must thoroughly review the specific business processes, select comparable best practices and determine what could be done best. given my education and experience in the field of accounting and auditing, acquired through work in auditing as well as through international programmes and projects, i supported the candidacy of sam jereb for a member of the court of auditors. i trust that mr. jereb will carry out his new function honestly and honorably and will use his extensive experience to perform his duties as efficiently as possible.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the proposed appointment of mr mihail kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors because i consider that mr kozlovs is particularly qualified for this post and that his independence is beyond doubt. the commission has also received a letter from the latvian authorities on the implementation of the 'special measures' in the field of the environment and sustainable development. i believe that mr kozlovs will act responsibly in this capacity and therefore i am voting in favour of this report.
written. ‒ the members of the court of auditors of the eu scrutinise the revenue and expenditure of all the union institutions and agencies. during 2016, the ten members of the court of auditors will end their term of office and new members will be appointed for a period of six years. each member state submits a proposal for a candidate for a member of the court of auditors and the council decides on the list of the best candidates, who are then heard by the committee on budgetary control and finally confirmed by parliament. the candidate for member of the court of auditors, mr mikhail kozlov, was approved by the committee on budgetary control, however, i did not support this report which shows that the candidate lacks sufficient audit experience and does not meet the requirements of the european parliament.
written. ‒ the court of auditors is important for the supervision and control of the use of eu funds, and its independence and the quality of the work of judges are guarantees for the protection of the interests of all eu citizens. i supported the proposal to appoint mr mihail kozlov as a member of the court of auditors following the evaluation of the qualifications of the candidate by the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and following the hearing. mihails kozlovs has 15 years of extensive experience in national and eu economic policy-making, the eu budget, public finance, public administration, institutional relations, development banking, diplomacy, representation, communication and people, change and project management, with a wide network of contacts at all levels of the eu institutions and a master's degree in business administration for executives from a prestigious university, all in support of the coveted function. with the above-mentioned professional experience and education, i believe that he will be able to perform his duties as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ since 1999, when he obtained his master's degree, he has been building up professional experience in public finance, economics, fiscal policy and financial management in the latvian public administration (ministry of finance) as well as in the international environment in brussels (latvia's permanent representation to the eu) and london (european bank for reconstruction and development). mihails kozlovs arrived in brussels in 2003, just after the signing of the accession treaty, and was one of the first advisers to represent national interests in the eu. in reply to questions, mr kozlovs wanted to highlight his experience in the field of multilateral economic and fiscal surveillance and in the financial sector, where we have witnessed major changes with far-reaching consequences after the crisis, which in some cases challenge the court's work on tasks arising from the treaties. for all the above reasons, i support the appointment of a colleague as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ having regard to the evaluation by the committee on budgetary control of the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in terms of the conditions set out in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having regard to the hearing of the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors held at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 15 march 2016, i have supported the appointment of mr mihail kozlov as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ one of the important roles of the court of auditors is to build trust in the democratic institutions of the european union. it is therefore important that all members of the court of auditors perform their duties in accordance with the highest expectations of eu citizens. i support the draft report on the proposed appointment of mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors. i believe that mihails kozlovs will improve the cooperation between the court of auditors, the national audit institutions and the european parliament, more specifically the committee on budgetary control, in the audit of the eu budget. i also believe that the work of mihail kozlov will further improve the court's reports so that the european parliament can receive all the necessary information on the accuracy of the data provided by the member states to the european commission. i consider that mr mihails kozlovs will be fully independent in the performance of his duties as a member of the court of auditors and will thus contribute to the work of the court of auditors and to cooperation with the european parliament through his impartiality, objectivity and integrity.
written. ‒ i supported the appointment of mr mikhail kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors, as mr kozlovs is an independent, qualified and motivated expert with more than 15 years of extensive experience in economic policy-making at national and european union level, in the european union budget, public finance, public administration and development banking and diplomacy. the court of auditors has an important role to play in the process of promoting a culture of good financial management, and i believe that the members of the court of auditors should be qualified experts who can enhance the added value of auditing the performance of the business. i trust that mr kozlovs will justify the trust and i hope that he will be guided by the principle of independence which is at the heart of the audit in the performance of his day-to-day duties and in the making of strategic decisions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the proposed appointment of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors because his previous experience in the czech-moravian guarantee and development bank, in the ministry of finance and in other financial bodies indicates that mr gregor has the necessary knowledge and skills to perform the function in question with quality. the professional activities carried out by mr gregor and his responsibility are also a guarantee that he will perform his duties as a member of the court of auditors in a professional and conscientious manner.
written. ‒ the members of the court of auditors of the eu scrutinise the revenue and expenditure of all the union institutions and agencies. during 2016, the ten members of the court of auditors will end their term of office and new members will be appointed for a period of six years. to become members of the court of auditors, candidates shall first be heard by the committee on budgetary control, which shall give its opinion on the candidates. thereafter, each candidate shall be put to the vote in parliament's plenary session on the basis of a report from the committee. each member state submits a proposal for a candidate for a member of the court of auditors and the council decides on the list of the best candidates, who are then heard by the committee on budgetary control and finally confirmed by parliament. the candidate for the court of auditors, jan gregor, has over 10 years' experience in the financial sector, having worked in the czech ministry of finance and the european bank. given mr. gregor's experience, i supported the report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors is important for the supervision and control of the use of eu funds, and its independence and the quality of the work of judges are guarantees for the protection of the interests of all eu citizens. i supported the proposal to appoint mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors following the evaluation of the qualifications of the candidate by the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and following the hearing held. his experience as vice-chairman of the supervisory board of the czech-moravian guarantee and development bank, as well as his membership of the boards of directors, notably the board of directors of the european investment bank, and his history of work in the czech ministry of finance, demonstrate his capacity to perform the honorary duties of a judge of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ jan gregor participated in negotiations on the allocation of funds and international agreements for preaccession assistance, negotiations on eu accession budgetary impact, own resources simulation, adjustment for the financial perspective for the 2004 2006 programming period. he said he was proud to have had the opportunity to participate in the eu accession negotiations from the very beginning, in the context of monitoring the alignment of national legislation with the eu acquis, negotiating a number of chapters and attending the closing session of the european summit in copenhagen in 2002 during the danish presidency. together with his team from the national funds department, he worked as an extension of the european commission, both as a paying or certifying authority and as an authority responsible for the funds. the commission has appreciated the stability and reliability of the national funds department team over the years. for all the above reasons, i support the appointment of a colleague as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ having regard to the evaluation by the committee on budgetary control of the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions set out in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having regard to the hearing of the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors held on 15 march 2016 at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control, i have supported the appointment of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ the role of the court of auditors is unique and involves building trust in the democratic institutions of the european union, which can have a strong positive impact on the attitudes of eu citizens. it is therefore important that all members of the court of auditors perform their duties in accordance with the highest expectations of eu citizens, for whom the transparency of the eu institutions is very important. i support the draft report on the proposed appointment of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors. i am confident that jan gregor will contribute to improving cooperation between the court of auditors, the national audit institutions and the european parliament, more specifically the committee on budgetary control, in the audit of the eu budget. furthermore, i believe that the work of jan gregor will further improve the court's reports so that the european parliament has access to all the necessary information on the accuracy of the data provided by the member states to the european commission. i consider that mr jan gregor, like all the other members of the court of auditors, will be completely independent in the performance of his duties and will thus contribute to the work of the court of auditors and its cooperation with the european parliament by his impartiality, objectivity and integrity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the proposed appointment of mr ladislav balko to the court of auditors, which gives a negative opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr balko to the court of auditors, because that is the position of the alde group which i have decided to follow in this vote.
written. ‒ the members of the court of auditors of the eu scrutinise the revenue and expenditure of all the union institutions and agencies. during 2016, the ten members of the court of auditors will end their term of office and new members will be appointed for a period of six years. to become members of the court of auditors, candidates shall first be heard by the committee on budgetary control, which shall give its opinion on the candidates. thereafter, each candidate shall be put to the vote in parliament's plenary session on the basis of a report from the committee. each member state submits a proposal for a candidate for a member of the court of auditors and the council decides on the list of the best candidates, who are then heard by the committee on budgetary control and finally confirmed by parliament. the candidate for the court of auditors, ladislav balko, does not have the same experience in audit work as the other candidates, which is why i voted against the report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors is important for the supervision and control of the use of eu funds, and its independence and the quality of the work of judges are guarantees for the protection of the interests of all eu citizens. following the evaluation by parliament's committee on budgetary control of the qualifications of the proposed candidate and the hearing of the council candidate for the court of auditors, the committee on budgetary control gave a negative opinion on the appointment of this candidate as a member of the court of auditors.
written. - ladislav balko was born in slovakia. he graduated in law from comenius university in bratislava. he then completed his doctoral studies in law and obtained a degree of doctor of science and began to teach financial and commercial law. in 1990 and 1991, he was head of the legal service of the customs administration of the slovak republic. from 1991 to 1999, he held a number of management positions, including that of deputy general manager of the largest slovak commercial bank všeobecná úverová banka (vúb). in the course of the investigation, the commission found that the state-owned banks had not provided sufficient evidence to support their claim that the state-owned banks had provided the state-owned banks with sufficient information to enable them to comply with the state aid rules. in 2004 he was appointed a member of the board of directors the governing body of the national bank of slovakia (nbs). in 2006, thanks to his long experience in the financial sector, dr balko became advisor to the prime minister of the slovak republic on finance and foreign investment. for all the above reasons, i support the appointment of a colleague as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ the role of the court of auditors is unique and involves building trust in the democratic institutions of the european union, which can have a strong positive impact on the attitudes of eu citizens. it is therefore important that all members of the court of auditors perform their duties in accordance with the highest expectations of eu citizens who attach great importance to the transparency of the eu institutions and that they contribute to the work of the court of auditors and its cooperation with the european parliament by their impartiality, objectivity and integrity. i do not support the draft report on the proposed appointment of ladislav balk as a member of the court of auditors. unfortunately, ladislav balko showed no competence or interest in the hearing. i cannot therefore agree to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ given that the parliament's committee on budgetary control has assessed the proposed candidate's qualifications negatively, in particular in terms of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i have not supported the candidacy of mr ladislav balk for appointment as a member of the court of auditors. on 15 march 2016, at a meeting of parliament's committee on budgetary control, a hearing was held on the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors, following which the committee gave a negative opinion on his appointment. in view of the above, i have voted against the appointment of ladislav balk as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on the proposed appointment of mr janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors, as it rejects the negative opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors. that is the position of the alde group which i have decided to follow in this vote. mr. wojciechowski is qualified for this duty which i trust he will handle responsibly.
written. ‒ the members of the court of auditors of the eu scrutinise the revenue and expenditure of all the union institutions and agencies. during 2016, the ten members of the court of auditors will end their term of office and new members will be appointed for a period of six years. to become members of the court of auditors, candidates shall first be heard by the committee on budgetary control, which shall give its opinion on the candidates. thereafter, each candidate shall be put to the vote in parliament's plenary session on the basis of a report from the committee. each member state submits a proposal for a candidate for a member of the court of auditors and the council decides on the list of the best candidates, who are then heard by the committee on budgetary control and finally confirmed by parliament. the candidate for the court of auditors, janusz wojciechowski, does not meet the conditions, so i voted against the report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors is important for the supervision and control of the use of eu funds, and its independence and the quality of the work of judges are guarantees for the protection of the interests of all eu citizens. the candidacy of mr janusz wojciechowski for judge of the european court of auditors was assessed with a negative opinion after the committee on budgetary control had heard and assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, with the hearing of mr wojciechowski being assessed as very poor and the committee having rejected his candidacy for a member of the court of auditors by a majority vote.
written. ‒ from 1995 to 2001, he was the president of the supreme audit office (sca), the constitutional body of state audit that oversees the state budget and other state activities, appointed by the polish parliament for that six-year term. during his term of office, he presented to the polish parliament six audits of the implementation of the state budget and answered questions from mps. since 2004, he has been involved in issues related to the budget of the european union as a member of the european parliament, and in particular the budget of the common agricultural policy as vice-chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. for all the above reasons, i support the appointment of a colleague as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ the court of auditors, as the eu's independent external auditor, is very important because, among other things, it aims to build trust in the democratic institutions of the european union by protecting the interests of taxpayers. it is therefore important that all members of the court of auditors perform their duties in accordance with the highest expectations of eu citizens who attach great importance to the transparency of the eu institutions and that they contribute to the work of the court of auditors and its cooperation with the european parliament by their impartiality, objectivity and integrity. i do not support the draft report on the proposed appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors. unfortunately, i consider that janusz wojciechowski does not fulfil all the criteria necessary to perform the duties of a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ the controversies surrounding the renewal of the glyphosate authorisation have gone far beyond the scope of the commission decision mentioned above, but this could have been avoided if the renewal had not been proposed for a maximum of 15 years. the commission has consistently underestimated the speed with which public opinion develops and therefore conflicts over implementing and delegated acts have become more frequent in recent times. the likelihood that glyphosate is carcinogenic cannot be discounted and dismissed, and that's why i think seven years is too long. still, such a complaint is better than no complaint at all. impartial examinations must be carried out as soon as possible and the facts must be established.
written. ‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate in accordance with the regulation of the parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending the annex to implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011 because the text of the resolution does not clearly and precisely show that the use of glyphosate poses a serious risk to human and animal health. as many studies show that the use of glyphosate is very likely to contribute to the development of cancer in the human body, i voted against this resolution.
written. ‒ i voted against the decision to extend the use of glyphosate for seven years because i do not think it is a reasonable and optimal solution. the commission has also proposed that the use of glyphosate in food beverages be restricted to the following categories of food: 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma, 'b' cell lymphoma' cell 'b' cell 'c' cell 'c' cell 'c' cell 'c' cell 'c' cell 'c' cell 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' 'c' ' the efsa has not classified glyphosate as a potential carcinogen, and herbicide manufacturers deny its carcinogenicity. the commission has also concluded that the use of glyphosate in the food industry is not a risk to human health and the environment, and that the use of glyphosate in food production is not a risk to human health and the environment. the commission has also concluded that the use of glyphosate in food is not a risk to human health and that the risk to the environment is not a risk to human health. the extension of the use of glyphosate should follow this framework and my view was that it should be limited to a period of one to three years after which a final decision on its use or prohibition should be taken following the conduct of this targeted study.
written. ‒ glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide that acts by affecting the so-called 'slant pathway', which is also present in algae, bacteria and fungi. populations are primarily exposed if they live near the sprayed areas, through household use and through food. the effects of glyphosate on human health should not be underestimated. a number of member states have already taken precautionary measures to protect public health and the environment. since, in the event of an authorisation of an active substance, clear and legally binding conditions for its use should be set at union level in order to achieve an equivalent level of protection in all member states, i invite the commission to mandate its food and veterinary office to test and monitor glyphosate residues in food and drink produced in the union as well as in imported products.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report with a reservation, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the most widely produced herbicide in the world today is the systemic herbicide glyphosate, whose use has increased dramatically over the last 40 years. glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide, meaning it destroys all plants, and its residues have been found in water, soil, food and drink, as well as in the human body. the impact of glyphosate on the environment and on human and animal health is also unquestionable. the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing regulation does not apply the precautionary principle and does not provide a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. in view of the deficiencies mentioned, the european parliament requests the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new one to the committee.
written. glyphosate, which was introduced in 1974, is the most widely used herbicide in the world, and it can enter our bodies through the food we eat, which is unknown to many people. the british food safety authority estimated that a third of all bread was contaminated with traces of glyphosate. similarly, the americans claim that 90 percent of the soybeans they produce are contaminated with glyphosate, and the germans say that every other beer is contaminated with the herbicide. a german study in 18 european countries found the presence of a toxic glyphosate-based herbicide in the urine of 44% of europeans. the presence of trace amounts of glyphosate in our bodies is a concern because this herbicide has been linked to a number of health problems, from metabolic problems to liver and kidney disease to cancer. the world health organization considers glyphosate to be 'probably carcinogenic to humans', while the european food safety authority considers glyphosate to be unlikely to be carcinogenic to humans. i voted in favor of the amendment extending the use of glyphosate to a maximum of seven years, and i supported that objection.
written. ‒ experts have been warning for years about the harmful effects of glyphosate, the world's most widely used herbicide, whose use has increased dramatically over the past 40 years. glyphosate is the most widely used agricultural chemical used in almost all herbicides. given that glyphosate and its residues are found in water, soil, food and drink, inedible products and the human body, i believe that more attention should be paid to its effects on human health. the world health organization claims that glyphosate probably has carcinogenic potential and has been classified as a human carcinogen, while the european food safety authority claims that glyphosate does not pose a risk to humans because of its carcinogenic potential. although the two organizations mentioned have opposing views, i believe that there should be a high level of protection, both for human and animal health and the environment, and i voted to not renew the approval of glyphosate.
written. ‒ i support this report which recognises the eu as a genuine international actor capable of shaping events and being a leader in a changing environment. i believe that eu member states need to work in synergy, develop their defence capabilities and pool and share them more effectively. the eu must be more active in its environment and be able to prevent and manage crises and conflicts that threaten the security of every eu citizen.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world because i believe that the eu should be strengthened as a foreign policy actor above all. in this context, there is a need to review the security situation in the immediate vicinity of the eu and in the wider neighbourhood in the light of the creation of lasting stability and the promotion of the rule of law and respect for human rights. in particular, the commission should be able to monitor the implementation of the union's external action programmes, in particular the implementation of the union's external action programmes, and to monitor the implementation of the union's external action programmes. energy security will play a major role in the internal development of the european union, while its continued prosperity will depend on its ability to be innovative and competitive. i believe that a global eu strategy for foreign and security policy is crucial to ensure that the union's role in the world is consistent and relevant to current threats and challenges.
written. ‒ the resolution refers to promoting the european union's objective of defending its citizens, societies and values, stabilising the wider neighbourhood and strengthening multilateral global governance and cooperation. the eu should be a constructive global actor with a regional focus and the necessary civilian and military resources. i supported the resolution because it stresses the need to improve cooperation with global and regional actors in the fight against global threats.
written. ‒ i support the objective of the new eu global strategy for a comprehensive foreign and security policy to increase its coherence and improve coordination between the institutions and the member states. development is not possible without security. similarly, security is not possible without development. i agree that development policy should be an important part of the eu's global strategy for foreign and security policy. i believe that the achievement of the sustainable development goals, in particular those promoting good governance, human rights, democracy and justice, combating poverty, reducing inequality and social exclusion, addressing unemployment and removing obstacles to sustainable economic growth for the benefit of all citizens, and improving health and education, contributes to addressing the root causes of the current migration challenges. i agree that threats of various kinds directed at individual member states must be considered as threats to the union as a whole and i call for strong solidarity and unity among member states.
written. ‒ strong political will and leadership are needed for the eu and the member states to act decisively together to respond proactively, jointly and effectively to challenges, to protect the eu's values and social model, and to make the eu an effective actor with a well-developed strategy and to contribute to security on the international stage. the european union must urgently take all necessary measures against strategic environmental destruction and its long-term consequences. in order to build stability and peace and to promote people's security, the rule of law, respect for human rights and democratisation, it should respect its commitments to enlargement and integration, through policies that promote economic growth and social inclusion. i regret that there is still no regulatory framework for corporations to respect human rights and obligations in relation to social and environmental standards, allowing certain states and companies to circumvent them with impunity.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ many current and future challenges and threats to the eu are complex and interconnected, emanating from state and non-state actors, both within and beyond common borders, and strong political will and leadership are needed for the european union and member states to act collectively. an effective response to challenges and threats is important in order to protect european values and the european union's social model. terrorism, regional conflicts and organised crime, and numerous other threats and challenges, in particular the current migration crisis, require a rapid and effective response based on strong solidarity between member states, cooperation and sufficient and flexibly applicable budgetary resources. in order to confront global threats and challenges, the european union's strategy must aim at identifying and prioritising them, defining appropriate responses to them and identifying the necessary means. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data.
written. ‒ the european union faces many threats and challenges every day. the focus of the threats themselves is difficult to identify and it is important to react in a timely manner. threats come from a variety of actors and from a variety of places. good communication between the eu institutions and their joint action at regional and global level is key to tackling the problem. what is important is the stability and security of the wider neighbourhood of europe as a whole. i support the report on the european union in a changing global environment. the aim is to protect eu values together so that no member state has to respond to threats alone. attacks on individual member states are considered as attacks on the eu as a whole. over the past decade, the challenges have been very similar: from the threat of terrorism to the climate change that has affected europe. it is essential to respond to all these threats with strong political will and a joint effort by all the eu institutions and member states. the strong and effective action of the eu institutions benefits not only eu citizens but the whole world.
written. ‒ in such a volatile and uncertain environment, the european union needs to have a strategic autonomy that will allow it to secure and promote its own interests and values, and i believe that the security of the people must be at the heart of the european union's global strategy. however, the report on the european union in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world calls on the institutions of the european union and the member states to take a comprehensive, common and holistic approach in their external action in order to eventually lead to a common defence policy. i believe that each member state has the responsibility for its own defence policy and that nato should remain the cornerstone of security and stability in europe, and for these reasons i voted against this report.
written. ‒ i support this report which supports the eu countries' additional engagement with the countries of central asia, where security and energy interests are important. at the same time, i believe that this engagement should not be carried out at the expense of democratic values, such as the protection of human rights.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia (2015/2220(ini)) given the strategic importance of close relations with that part of asia which includes uzbekistan, kazakhstan, tajikistan, kyrgyzstan and turkmenistan. these are countries that are important from a trade point of view, where the eu is the most important trading partner but trade links need to be further strengthened. central asia is important both from a security and energy perspective for diversification and ensuring the eu's energy security. the 2007 central asia strategy needs to be revised to take account of new circumstances and commitment to the eu's core values. the shortcomings of the political systems of these countries, such as insufficient political participation of citizens, growing inequality and poverty despite the large economic resources, need to be recognised and taken into account. there are great challenges and needs in terms of improving human rights, promoting women's rights, media freedom, gender equality, children's rights and others. in view of this state of democratic social relations, it is recommended that the eu should take greater account of the consistent implementation of long-term democratic reform in the design of its human rights policy and external financial instruments.
written. ‒ the eu has recognised the democratic deficit and human rights violations in some central asian countries and wants to make greater efforts to correct them, prioritising the possibilities of action on smaller central asian countries, increasing partnerships and energy cooperation. the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the eu is committed to the development of a common defence policy.
written. ‒ there is a strong political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia. the eu's strategic approach has been partially successful so far. i think we should focus more on strengthening democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. in this context, i regret that this resolution emphasises the particular rights of sexual minorities, as set out in articles 36, 37 and 151, instead of addressing the common real challenges in improving and promoting the status of women's rights and gender equality, as well as combating domestic violence, abduction of girls, trafficking in human beings, early marriage and physical abuse. the same case is found in the proposal on kyrgyzstan. although it is stated at the beginning that abduction of girls, marital rape and domestic violence are still present, nevertheless, in the specific part of the proposal where it talks about kyrgyzstan in article 151, the emphasis is focused only on improving the standards and rights of sexual minorities.
written. ‒ i stress the eu's strong strategic, political and economic interest in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia. the economic and security situation in the region would also be improved by enhanced regional cooperation. respect for human rights and democracy must be at the heart of the eu's strategy as regards the scope of cooperation provided for in partnership and cooperation agreements which imply the application of a human rights and democracy clause. i strongly condemn the continued persecution of human rights defenders, opposition politicians and journalists in turkmenistan, uzbekistan, tajikistan, kazakhstan and kyrgyzstan. i stress the growing importance of trade relations between the eu and central asia, with the eu now the number one trading partner in the region. the eu needs to further strengthen its trade and investment relations with the countries of central asia.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ there is a strong strategic, economic and political interest in strengthening the eu's bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia in the context of the growing importance of the region. the european union stated in its 2007 strategy that it is committed to making central asia a prosperous, peaceful, democratic, stable and inclusive region, and to functioning as an economically and environmentally sustainable region. the current strategic approach to building relations with the countries of central asia has proved only partially sustainable and successful, as the european union has failed to make a relevant contribution to addressing the severe socioeconomic and environmental problems and to the modernisation of central asian societies. the european external action service, the commission and the council undertook a review of the central asia strategy during 2015 with the aim of aligning more concretely the priorities, objectives and tasks with the interests, needs and framework situation in the central asian partner countries in order to adapt them as quickly as possible in a more flexible manner to the framework situation in that region. i consider that joint action by the institutions of the european union, the member state and the central asian country is essential for the stable development and improvement of the security situation in that region and therefore i support this report.
written. ‒ the central asian region is becoming increasingly important to the eu, particularly because of its specific relationship with neighbouring afghanistan. the area also faces various security threats and challenges. the major problems in the region include the use of natural resources, respect for democracy and various human rights violations. the eu institutions and the central asian countries must act and communicate together. i support the report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia. i believe that the priority is to further improve relations between the eu and the countries of central asia, which will consequently lead to progress in respect for human rights and democracy. education is the key to maintaining the stable development of these countries. the strategy benefits the eu economy, the rule of law and civil society organisations in central asian countries. i believe that there is a strong strategic and political interest for the eu to strengthen relations with the countries of central asia, alongside the economic one. strengthening regional cooperation will improve the security situation throughout the region
written. ‒ during the eight years of the central asia strategy, significant progress has been made in developing the european union's relations with kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan, as well as with the central asian region as a whole. the european union has a strong strategic, political and economic interest in strengthening bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia, as this region is increasingly affected by religious fanaticism and by the increase in conflicts of interest between the russian federation and the european union. i consider respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights to be essential preconditions for closer cooperation between the european union and the five central asian countries, as the overall situation of democracy and human rights in the region is, to a greater or lesser extent, bad and worrying. as i support the european union's efforts to improve economic and political stability in this region, i voted in favour of this report.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because it highlights important moments in the fight against the global threat of the zika virus. the zika virus is a danger that disproportionately threatens women. calls for women to refrain from pregnancy are inappropriate because pregnancy is often not a matter of choice, especially in poorer and less developed parts of the world. i also support the un recommendations on access to sexual and reproductive health services. women in poorer areas often lack access to information, tests, and medicines. i therefore call on the commission and the authorities of the affected countries to take into account the specific challenges and difficulties faced by women. at present, the threat to europe is relatively small, but with the advent of warmer and wetter weather, there is a chance that the mosquito virus will start to spread in our part of the world. if that happens, national borders won't stop him. the member states, regional authorities and the commission must therefore be prepared to respond in a coordinated and effective manner. furthermore, prevention is the best medicine and i therefore call on the commission to strongly support efforts to find a vaccine and to provide all the necessary assistance to countries fighting against zika.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the outbreak of zika virus because i support measures aimed at researching the virus, especially in severe congenital brain malformations, to prevent further spread. it is important to note that there are also opportunities for additional virus research in existing european programmes such as horizon 2020 and fp7. it is clear that there is currently no vaccine or treatment available and that prevention is based on individual protection measures. this outbreak has highlighted the shortcomings of public health systems and the fact that the virus can have severe consequences, especially for young and poor women. in this context, i believe that strong synergies at international level and strong support from the european union to the affected countries are needed to support the achievement of universal access to primary care. the commission should be able to verify the validity of the data submitted by the member states and the commission, in particular by means of the electronic system referred to in article 9 (1) of regulation (ec) no 999/2001.
written. - zika virus is a mosquito-borne virus that has recently become a major threat to the world's population. the world health organization has declared a public health emergency of international concern due to the outbreak. the number of cases of zika is increasing worldwide, and the recent cases reported, for example, include two european regions. the most problematic areas are those with populations living near rivers, lakes, streams, and water sources. most of these populations are not equipped to contain the virus. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of european citizens who are able to travel to the eu to study the zika virus, and to increase the number of european citizens who are able to travel to the eu to study the zika virus. i have supported this motion for a resolution and i hope that the funds allocated will contribute to preventing the spread of the virus.
written. ‒ zika virus is undoubtedly a global public health problem. however, the european parliament resolution in the form in which it was voted on the surface also presents a not so new approach to solving this problem which is more like a product of the times that we all in europe want to forget. such a view of life, under the guise of humanity and devotion to science, says that only some have the right to life while others, just as humans as we are, do not have that right. a study published in the journal nature in march of this year still states that scientists are trying to link the zika virus to the increased incidence of microcephaly in brazil, saying that the findings are just the tip of the iceberg. the 97 positive zika virus tests in 854 confirmed cases of microcephaly out of 2,197 investigated in the period up to november 2015 indicate a worrying situation, but scientists agree that the number of studies quantifying the risk of this virus is too small and only preliminary. that doesn't give you the right to make light decisions and promote abortions. it is regrettable that the current situation is being used for this purpose, and that is the main reason why i voted against this resolution.
the zika virus is a new mosquito-borne virus that was first discovered in 1947 in the zika forest in uganda on a rhesus monkey as part of the forest yellow fever surveillance network. on 1 february 2016, the who declared a public health emergency of international concern due to the outbreak of the zika virus. since there is a real threat of cross-border transmission of the viral infection via infected travellers and global trade, it is important to develop a communication plan on the most appropriate scale to raise public awareness and encourage appropriate behaviour to protect against mosquito bites. eu and third country air carriers should adequately and properly disinfect aircraft arriving from the infected area of a member state and raise the level of awareness of doctors and travellers' disease centres regarding the development of the zika virus outbreak and the vector controls established by the authorities in the affected areas in order to include zika virus in their differential diagnoses for residents of those areas and travellers coming from them and to prevent autochthonous transmission.
the world health organization (who) has declared the zika virus epidemic an international emergency. the virus has been reported in 28 countries worldwide and is particularly bad for poor young women. zika virus is most prevalent in brazil and is a real cross-border transmission of the virus through infected travelers and world trade. it has also been detected in two european regions - martinique and french guiana. there is currently no cure for the zika virus. therefore, the research on that virus for which the commission has proposed to allocate eur 10 million should be devoted to it. i believe it is of the utmost importance to implement an action plan to prevent further spread of the virus.
on 1 february 2016, the world health organisation (who) panel of experts declared the zika virus epidemic to be an international emergency. the virus was first discovered in 1947, but it's only in recent years that epidemics have occurred. at present, there is no vaccine or cure for the spread of the zika virus, which is transmitted by mosquito bites. experts agree that there is a link between zika virus infection in a pregnant woman and microcephaly in a newborn child. in addition, there is a real possibility of zika virus transmission on the territory of the european union. i support the motion for a resolution on the zika virus. it is essential to contain the virus as soon as possible and to prevent the transmission of the zika virus to the eu. the eu's research funding will help develop vaccines and curb the further spread of the virus. this is to protect the health of eu citizens and to prevent microcephaly in pregnant women.
written. - the zika virus was discovered in 1947 and has since mostly roamed africa, southeast asia and the pacific islands. in europe, there is a risk of the emergence of a local vector transmission of the disease during the summer season of 2016. research is under way to establish a link between zika infection in pregnant women and a large increase in cases of microcephaly, which causes babies to be born with abnormally small heads and, in most cases, delays in brain development. while i support the view that early warning of the dangers of this disease must begin and that the development of diagnostic tests and vaccines must be accelerated, i consider it inappropriate to call on states to introduce abortion rights in response to this virus. that is why i voted against this report.
written. ‒ i support this document because poland is not the only eu member state where fundamental democratic values are at stake. unfortunately, similar processes are underway in croatia and the reaction of western ambassadors to the suppression of media freedoms is proof of this. i call on all eu governments to be guardians of the fundamental values of liberal democracy on which the union is founded.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on poland, on the reform of the polish constitutional court and the state of the public media in that country following last year's elections. i fully support the efforts of the european commission and the launch of the 'rule of law framework' procedures to assess the situation and to initiate a dialogue with the polish authorities on the rule of law due to the existing 'paralysis' of the constitutional tribunal which is a danger to democracy. the rule of law and an independent judiciary are the basis for the protection of fundamental human rights and personal freedoms in the eu. the recent actions of the polish government and the president of the republic represent a danger to constitutional democracy. in the same way, without double standards, it is necessary to monitor other member states in terms of the state of democracy, fundamental human rights and the rule of law.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the situation in poland because i believe that fundamental human rights must be respected. the foundations of european unity and cohesion are, above all, media freedom, the rule of law and respect for democracy. i believe that the justice system must be politically independent and promote civil liberties. only in this way can a country show that it is prepared to cooperate at european level.
written. ‒ for me, the right to life, which begins with conception, is a basic human right from which all other rights are derived and based. i voted against the controversial amendments that referred to the challenge to the polish law on the prohibition of abortion because they were unacceptable to me. family and health policy is a matter for the member states and the eu must not interfere. but in order for the polish government to make the necessary changes to the existing law and not to call it into question, the country must not be in a constitutional crisis. the constitutional court is the highest body of a country that protects its constitution and constitutional order, it must be independent and function normally and thus be a guarantor of the rule of law. and the polish constitution states that the republic of poland must ensure the legal protection of every human being. it would be bad if some good laws that the polish government has already passed or plans to pass were to be overshadowed by this constitutional crisis or brought into question by it. therefore, i believe that it is necessary first to resolve the constitutional crisis and ensure the normal functioning of all institutions and branches of government, and then to continue working on changes that will lead to the reforms necessary for a better life of the citizens of poland.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ respect for the rule of law, democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms and the values and principles enshrined in the eu treaties and international human rights instruments are obligations to which the union and its member states are bound. the recent developments in poland, following the arrival of the law and justice (pis) party, have highlighted shortcomings in the constitutional tribunal's ability to guarantee respect for the constitution and the rule of law. the new rules on the functioning of the constitutional tribunal pose a potential danger to constitutional democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the european commission has for the first time launched the 'rule of law framework' procedure in order to launch a structured dialogue with the polish authorities and assess the current situation. i believe that each member state should fully respect the obligations it has assumed upon joining the eu.
written. ‒ in late 2015, the law and justice (pis) party won the elections in poland. soon after coming to power, she implemented several reforms, including the constitutional court act. critics of the system have objected to the removal of judges from the constitutional court and media reforms, and have stressed that the state does not respect the rule of law. this attracted the interest of the domestic and foreign media and the european commission initiated the 'rule of law framework' procedure for the first time. the aim is to study and investigate whether there is a threat to democracy and the rule of law in poland. i support the motion for a resolution on the situation in poland. i believe that respect for fundamental human freedoms, freedom of the media and the rule of law is the foundation of a modern and strong european union. the judicial system must be independent of any political option and encourage civil liberties. i believe that all member states must respect eu law and be prepared to cooperate fully with the eu institutions. it is in the interest of the whole european union to resolve the situation with poland as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i consider the european union's interference in poland's internal politics to be primarily inappropriate, but also unnecessary, since polish politicians are capable of solving their own internal problems, if any, in their own country. i consider that poland fully respects the law of the european union and upholds the fundamental european values, in particular democratic principles, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, in its legislative and administrative practice, and i voted against the european parliament's resolution on the situation in poland.
member of the commission.– madam president, this discussion illustrated very well all the difficult questions and dilemmas that we had while working on this new legislation for the protection of the private data of eu citizens. i would like to mention some of the big dilemmas that we had when we were seeking a proper and right balance for our solutions. one of those dilemmas is a big question these days – the dilemma between privacy and security – and many of you mentioned it here today. this is a question that everybody has to reply to personally because it is a very private question: to what extent am i willing to give up my privacy in the interests of being more secure? this is the basic question, and very probably i will answer myself as a person who lived part of my life under a totalitarian regime, when i knew i was being spied on by state police. my reply will probably be different – because i am more sensitive about this – to the reply of the young people sitting over there in the audience who have not had such an experience. now we are preparing the legislation which will balance this properly for everybody in europe. this is a really difficult task, and especially these days we must be aware that after every new terrorist attack people will be more and more willing to give up their privacy in the interests of security. that is why we must be so vigilant and careful and protect fundamental rights and the right to privacy. so we are in a situation where we have to let law enforcement bodies act properly, using data in the necessary and proportionate way – and this is the formulation that the supreme courts use when identifying the balance and the right of access to data on the part of law enforcement authorities. so we are now in a very sensitive period when we must be especially careful about the protection of privacy and private data. the other dilemma which was also mentioned here, i think by mr polčák, concerns the issue of paternalism – whether the individual has to be responsible, or whether he or she should rely on the public sphere to care for his or her protection. i mentioned that the commission will work very strongly and intensively on guiding people on how to use their new rights. we will always stress that individual people should be the first to care about their privacy and their private data, and we will warn them not to send data to places, especially in digital sphere, where their privacy might be endangered. then the secondary measure is legislation. there is no legislation which can protect the privacy of people 100%, and we must be clear about that and also educate people in europe to be and to retain the position of ‘data subjects’ and not to become ‘data objects’ who expect others to protect them. i think this is very important. the third dilemma is between opening and keeping a space for innovation, and protection. you know that the digital sphere in particular is the sphere where technology is driven by the economy, by big business interests, and here we see that the law comes third and is the slowest. so this is what we need to do now, to catch up with this sphere of economy and technology while keeping a free space for innovation which is so necessary for economic growth and filtering out the risks in that sphere for individual people, and to act only there in that sphere of possible risk and to offer the proper instruments to protect people’s privacy. i also admire the fact – and i think it was mr de kerchove who mentioned it here – that the directive from 1995 proved to be future-proof. look at it: it was created before the digital boom, and still we use this directive. but we all know that we need to come up with a new set of rules which will be unified for the whole of europe, because digital does not like borders and we have the duty to remove borders. here i come to what you mentioned in relation to the rest of the world. i am convinced that this unified and unique set of rules for the eu will lead to the eu becoming the world leader, setting the standards also for the rest of the world. we will have to review all our adequacy decisions which relate to the transfer of european citizens’ data to third countries. this is the hot topic of today, which some of you mentioned as well, and i would like to use this opportunity to inform you about the position of the commission on today’s opinion of working party 29, because this working party, which brings together the data protection authorities from all the member states, today published its opinion on the results of our negotiations on the new regime for data transfers to the united states. it was mentioned several times, so i will use this opportunity to give you, for the first time, the commission’s reaction. i would like to say that, as we understand it, the european data protection authorities, i.e. the article 29 working party, today welcomed the significant improvements that the commission has obtained in two years of negotiations, leading to the eu/us privacy shield, compared to the old safe harbour framework, especially regarding the transparency of the arrangement and safeguards for national security access. the data protection authorities also mentioned some areas that should be further clarified in the commission’s draft adequacy decision. so the commission will now examine the opinion in depth and address the working party’s recommendations in its final decision. i already discussed this with ms falque-pierrotin, chair of the article 29 working party, when i spoke with her by phone earlier today before this plenary session. one point i can mention is that the commission will produce a citizen’s guide to make sure that individuals have easy-to-understand, practical information on how to obtain redress in case of complaints. the next step is for the member states to discuss and vote on the privacy shield in a committee of experts, the so-called article 31 committee. the first discussion will take place on 29 april. as i said before, my aim is that we can put the new arrangement in place by june. we urgently need strong protections for our citizens whose data is transferred across the atlantic, and we need legal certainty for the many european companies that carry out transfers to the united states as part of their business operations.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you very much. there is little i can add after the words of the commissioner. all of us have worked very hard on the new data protection rules and the importance is, in my view, obvious. data protection is vital for many reasons. i used to be a member of this house and i recognise many of you as ‘partners in crime’. i am happy that the plenary vote will allow us to sign both the general data protection regulation and the directive on data protection in the field of criminal law enforcement. again many thanks to you, madam commissioner, your predecessors, as well as the members of parliament.
written. the issue of the collection, processing and use of personal data has taken on a new dimension with the development of information technology. today, in our business and personal lives, we are constantly exposed to digital technology. the digital environment is constantly circulating, collecting, storing and recording information that is also personal. the fact is that the process of change in the social and economic environment through the use of digital technology is much faster than the legislative adaptations that regulate the new possible forms of abuse. the outdated directive 95/46/ec (general data protection regulation) is no longer able to adequately regulate and protect human rights in the light of all the changes that have taken place with the development of information technology. the new regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive 95/46/ec (general data protection regulation) provides an excellent basis for the protection of personal data and personal identity in the digital environment. the new regulation creates an enabling environment for the development of the economy and the digital society in the future.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you very much, mrs. fajon, for accepting my blue card. i would like to ask you, as a woman who has just spoken about this, about the need for cooperation between the member states, but also as a woman who is well aware of the situation in the western balkans, do you agree with me that we should certainly look at how to integrate the candidate countries for accession to the european union into this pnr system? because we know that bosnia and herzegovina in particular, and possibly some other countries, could be, so to speak, the source of those who want to engage in terrorism and who could be our danger. do you agree with me?
madam president, those who think that the pnr system will solve our security problems are mistaken. the pnr will be a good tool and i'll vote for it, anyway. but it's just going to be a good tool in the end and not much more than that. actually, i'm advocating for something much more. i am in favour of the mandatory exchange of information, i am in favour of the creation of a common european intelligence agency, i am in favour of strengthening europol. far more than what is being talked about here in this room today as a salvation for our security system, because pnr is not going to be. finally, i would like to stress the need for the candidate countries of the western balkans to be included in this system when we adopt it. the weapons are coming from the western balkans. some of the devices from the western balkans were used in the terrorist attacks. the western balkans must be brought into this system.
mr president, the report well recognises that turkey is a key partner of the european union and that this bilateral relationship has enormous potential that can only be realised through an active and credible negotiation process. but i'm afraid the reporter and i don't share the same notion of credibility. negotiating for so long with a country whose membership in the union has not been endorsed by all the member states is not in the least credible. it is therefore certain that negotiations with turkey may take decades and still not result in turkish membership of the union. the big question is can an islamic democracy ever become a mirror image of western society, and should we even be striving for it? let us not forget the fact that western societies have matured for centuries, so i do not believe in the slightest that turkey, even with the best of intentions, will succeed in the short term in shaping its society to european standards.
mr. president, every country on the european continent has the right to become a member of the european union. however, there are conditions for this. there are conditions that every country that wants to come to our club, to the european union, must meet. there are no concessions to anyone, and certainly not to turkey, a great country, a country that is our partner, a country that is in some ways also a strategic partner of the european union on many issues, but there can be no special concessions, because we must not trample on our values, all that the countries that entered the european union have gone through and we who are sitting here today as representatives of those countries. so i am convinced that turkey needs help when it comes to migrants and refugees, because every country that takes care of migrants and refugees - also jordan, lebanon and others - needs help, but it cannot be blackmailed into joining the european union. so turkey does, but on the same terms as any other country.
madam president, what is certain at this moment is the positive role of albania is the fact that albania is a significant factor of regional stability. i have already emphasized in this room the meeting between vucic and rama in belgrade and tirana as a brave move by both politicians and an indicator of the desire to achieve a new quality in the balkans. however, this is not enough. albania, if it wants to become a member of the european union, must meet absolutely all the conditions. minority issues are highlighted here. however, i would like to highlight above all what is already common knowledge, namely the rule of law, corruption at various levels and organised crime. these are dangers for europe and should be highlighted. of course, it will be necessary to meet all the other criteria, but i believe that albania has the strength to meet such criteria and i want to see her as soon as possible in our society.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, for a long time bosnia and herzegovina was treated as a protectorate. the high representative repeatedly changed the original dayton agreement unilaterally, undermining the hard-won agreement between the three nations. i agree that dayton needed and still needs an upgrade because it is deeply unfair to croats, but that upgrade cannot be imposed and cooked in foreign kitchens. that's why i regret that some ill-informed colleagues continue to insist on international tutoring which has so far resulted only in the irresponsibility and incompetence of domestic politicians who were never forced to make key decisions for the future of the country. instead, they were brought in by ill-informed or cheerful outsiders, often with completely wrong motives, without regard for the interests of all three constituent peoples. such an approach must be lost to history once and for all, otherwise bosnia and herzegovina will never become a functioning state.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank mr predi for his excellent report and in general for his work in promoting bosnia and herzegovina's european path. the commission, and mr hahn, have also been very persistent in their efforts to integrate bosnia and herzegovina and the other five western balkan countries. on behalf of the alde group, i welcome the steps taken by bosnia and herzegovina so far, the most significant of which is the submission of its application for membership of the european union. bosnia and herzegovina's path towards the european union has been slow and very complicated. it's probably gonna stay that way, but it's important that it continues. it's not clear what bosnia will look like at the end of that road, and this report doesn't answer some key questions like constitutional changes, the structure of bosnia and herzegovina. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. two examples illustrate how much bosnia and herzegovina is required. the first is the coordination mechanism, which is the most complicated that any country has had on the way to the european union, and the second is just one example from the joint action plan, or the reform plan that talks about budget consolidation, reducing public spending, limiting pension, social and health costs, which is demanding for every country, and for bosnia and herzegovina in particular. and that's probably not the hardest part of the job, and that's why it's important to continue to communicate internally, to find common solutions. and once again, the alde group's full support for bosnia and herzegovina's european path, for the efforts of its citizens, and equally for the commission and mr hahn's efforts and activities regarding bosnia and herzegovina's accession to the european union.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you, mr. scholtes, for accepting my blue card. you mentioned that we should help bosnia and herzegovina, and the report mentions that need, but do you agree with me that, at this moment, when we are suffering a lot in the european union, above all in terms of security, it is bosnia and herzegovina that we need maximum help and their state bodies to better control the security situation in bosnia and herzegovina because i fear that bosnia and herzegovina could be the source of our great security problems?
madam president, commissioner, i would certainly like to start by praising the work of the rapporteur, mr preda. the result is a high-quality and objective report on bosnia and herzegovina's progress in the past year, which was in many ways unique for that country. i recall that a year ago, a written commitment was signed by all leaders in bosnia and herzegovina to be ready for reforms, which, after many years of delay, resulted in the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement in june. the year of progress was formally concluded by bosnia and herzegovina's submission of its candidacy for full membership. i see this as an important contribution to the much-needed exit from dayton to the brussels phase of this country. the report thus records progress but also identifies a number of areas where real results are needed to assess the membership application as successful. first of all, we expect a final agreement on the establishment of an effective coordination mechanism. the other two key conditions for progress, the full implementation of the reform agenda and the adaptation of the stabilisation and association agreement, are yet to take place. unfortunately, there are also unresolved issues that delay the final release of the long-standing census. there is also a lack of a number of strategies at the state level which prevents bosnia and herzegovina from starting to use serious funds to build energy and transport infrastructure. corruption remains a serious systemic problem. there is a need to ensure adequate protection for whistle-blowers, but the best support would be to strengthen the judiciary at all levels. in parallel, it is necessary to prepare work on future political, electoral and constitutional reforms that will shape bosnia and herzegovina into a functional, inclusive and efficient state based on the principles of federalism, subsidiarity, equality and equal rights of all its peoples and citizens. as head of the european parliament's delegation for relations with bosnia and herzegovina, i regret the failure to constitute a joint parliamentary body of the bih assembly and the european parliament, but we could not allow an attempt to transfer to the common agenda provisions that include ethnic census. i hope that at the next meeting in june we will agree, adopt a common agenda and contribute to our common goal the european future of bosnia and herzegovina.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate commissioner hahn and also our colleague predi on an excellent report. i can say that this is the first report in the last few years that is positive about bosnia and herzegovina. it was always boring: bosnia and herzegovina never moves. at this point, we can say that we have very positive news. in february, bosnia and herzegovina submitted its application for membership. it is true that this application for membership had only symbolic value, but it was a great support for the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina. we are pleased that the political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina have finally agreed that there is a consensus on the european path, but of course we in the european parliament and the commission will try to help as much as possible. of course, the stabilisation and association agreement needs to be adapted, the coordination mechanism needs to be applied, the reform agenda needs to be worked on. there is a lot of work ahead of bosnia and herzegovina, of its authorities, but they have a lot of support in us, the representatives in the european parliament. we wanted all three nations to be constituent, especially here i emphasize the croatian people and the desire for the croatian people to realize their rights, especially the right to their croatian language, to a channel in croatian and a radio and television channel. that is what is lacking in bosnia and herzegovina at the moment and that is why we care that bosnia and herzegovina continues on its european path, in the best way and as quickly as possible. thank you again to commissioner hahn and our mr. predi.
madam president, i thank first of all my colleague, mr preda, for this report which gives full support to the european path of bosnia and herzegovina. commissioner, i'm pleased that in your speech you put the need for reform, employment measures and economic growth and development at the forefront. however, as you know very well, political and legal security and stability are prerequisites for this. it's the foundation of trust that's key to investment and new business ventures and so on. i am sure that this is precisely what you have put in the foreground, and i expect you, commissioner, from the european commission, to help bosnia and herzegovina to use the funds from the new european fund for strategic investments. none of their projects are approved or on the list of approved projects. i also expect you to speed up the start of the use of ipa in those parts for regional development, for agriculture and rural development, for employment and social policy. it's not in use at all yet, and i expect bih to define a new system and establish political and legal security in the community and partnership of the three constituent peoples.
madam president, i congratulate mr predi on this report and i wish bosnia and herzegovina with all my heart to become a member of the european union as soon as possible. membership of the european family is demonstrated by respect for the values in which the european union believes and on which it is built. the european future of bosnia and herzegovina is therefore possible only if all three constituent peoples have equal rights. croats are discriminated against on all grounds, they have almost disappeared in some parts of bosnia and herzegovina, and the croatian language is insufficiently present in public and political life. the public broadcasting system in bosnia and herzegovina does not meet the needs of the croatian people and i hereby call for the establishment of national programmes within public television. the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina must ensure that the croats as a constituent people are respected in their rights and make greater efforts to comply with european union standards in all areas. finally, i thank my colleague mr predi for accepting my amendments, in particular the one calling on the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to eliminate the problem of crossborder air pollution caused by the operation of the refinery in bosanski brod.
mr president, i congratulate mr mesaric on his excellent report and i think it highlights all the key facts related to the growing problem of household poverty. it also suggests excellent measures to approach the problem. i consider particularly important the problem of energy poverty, which is present in all member states and is particularly pronounced in south-east europe. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. i support the initiative addressed to the commission to define precisely the definition of energy poverty in order to define and implement a common european policy as quickly and easily as possible. however, efforts need to be made in the member states to identify local problems, to help vulnerable citizens, and in particular to highlight the potential of social entrepreneurship and alternative business models, such as cooperatives and mutual societies, in enhancing social inclusion and the economic empowerment of women.the speaker agreed to answer the question raised by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i fully agree with you that the commission should pay special attention to older citizens who are socially vulnerable. we know that we have consequences from the past, that their current pensions are too small to pay their energy bills, but also their other bills. so they have very little money left for a normal life. so i think that this should not be the responsibility of the member states alone, but that the commission should also, by means of an act, encourage the member states to actually act in this direction. thank you for your suggestion.
mr president, increasing income in households considered poor is one of the key elements of the eu's strategy to 2020, but because of the economic crisis, one in six eu citizens still lives in poverty or at risk of poverty, and women and children are a particularly vulnerable group. the creation of new jobs and a minimum income are therefore the key instruments to ensure citizens a decent life, regardless of whether we are talking about a minimum wage or a minimum pension, which i call for and ask to be set at no lower than the poverty line in any country. reducing household expenses can also help in the fight against poverty. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european energy charter. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by taking into account the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment.
madam president, the christian tradition of celebrating easter has turned into a tragedy when a suicide bomber killed more than 73 people, including 30 children. the attack on christian families on easter itself is yet another evidence of the scale of the hatred and desire for their extermination. the extremists did not care that innocent christians suffered along with innocent muslims. this horrific massacre, unfortunately, is just one in a series of attacks on pakistani christians. christians make up only 2% of pakistan's population, and attacks targeting christians are increasing. the church in lahore was already the target of extremist attacks last march when 17 people were killed. this resolution is a small step towards awareness of what's happening, but it's not enough without effective action. counter-extremism cannot depend on borders and parts of the world where crimes occur. we must be united in the protection of human life and the protection of christianity. i call on the pakistani authorities to release asia bibi.
madam president, the whereabouts of 219 of the 276 girls who were abducted from a chibok school by boko haram exactly two years ago are still unknown. on behalf of the epp club, i would like to express once again our solidarity with their families and the people of nigeria. i also want to express my support for the government of president buhari, who recently addressed this house and encouraged us with an ambitious reform agenda to address the challenges that nigeria has faced for many years, including terrorism and endemic corruption. president buhari has already initiated certain changes and we encourage him to continue and deepen the fight against corruption and against boko haram. because, despite the nigerian military's initial successes, the fight against terrorism is not over. the attacks by islamist militants in northern nigeria are intensifying, with an increase in attacks on christians, with boko haram actually targeting anyone who does not share their ideology. the european union therefore continues to need to support nigeria in its fight against terrorism and extremism.
madam president, president buhari's very speech in this high house showed that his desire to lead nigeria, to actually lead nigeria, to lead his country, to root out corruption and to respect human rights. i am deeply convinced that, after the fact that we have a peaceful transfer of power in nigeria, nigeria can perhaps be a good example for the future of democratic relations in one country on the african continent. of course, the burden that is unambiguous, and that is the difficult situation in the economy and of course the presence of corruption, make it difficult for president buhari, and especially the fight against terrorism. so i think that when we talk about how to counter terrorism, we have to do it everywhere and at all times. and that's why nigeria, because of the perspective that it has as an example in africa, needs our maximum support. i expect the commission to pursue such a policy.
madam president, we mark the second anniversary of the abduction of 276 christian girls from chibok. of those, 219 are still unaccounted for. the situation in parts of nigeria under the terror of boko haram is escalating, and nigeria is climbing up the global terrorism index, where it is now ranked third. from the brutal massacre in bagha last january to the burning of the village in february this year. boko haram in nigeria attacks christians, bombs and burns down schools, hospitals, churches and entire villages. survivors witness the terror of the killing of pregnant women and the screams of children unable to save themselves. we can only guess what's happening to the chibok girls and the hundreds of other children kidnapped by boko haram. forced marriages, rape, slavery, and there's a growing rumor that chibok girls are being used as suicide bombers. this has got to stop. i call on the high representative mogherini to take concrete action. let's return the kidnapped children to their families, let's give the children back their childhoods and stop the terror that boko haram is carrying out.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive 95/46/ec (general data protection regulation), given that we are finally getting one of the elements amending directive 95/46. such an outdated directive was no longer able to regulate and protect human rights in an appropriate way in the light of all the changes that have taken place with the development of information technology. today we live in a digital society that seeks new solutions that will reconcile both the needs of citizens for privacy protection and the opportunities for further development of an economy that is increasingly based on digital technology. this provides an advanced standard, an advanced solution that can become a model for legislation beyond the eu. this solution represents a balance between consumer rights and the needs of business operators. it is the foundation for the protection of human rights, because the protection of personal data is the protection of personal identity. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to create a new legal framework for the digital economy.
written. ‒ i welcome the introduction of new legal frameworks in the area of personal data protection, as this will raise the level of security within the european union's borders and prevent any misuse of our citizens' personal data in advance. i agree that the european union's policy based on the right to protection of personal data needs to be strengthened, because it is this principle that guides the european union, that everyone has the right to the protection of his or her identity. i believe that the implementation of this proposal will lead to significant improvements in terms of legal certainty, reduction of administrative burden and consistency of data protection implementation in the union, all the more so as it protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, and in particular the right to the protection of personal data. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the issue of the protection of personal data in the context of the european union's new millennium. the measures also call on member states to establish better communication with each other to make the system fully functional, and i believe that better communication and cooperation will result.
written. ‒ the adoption of this regulation, which i support, completes the complete reform of the data protection rules that the ep has been working on for four years. the reform will replace the current data protection directive dating back to 1995 when the internet was in its infancy, and a general regulation designed to give citizens greater control over their own information in the digitised world of smartphones, social media and online banking. the new rules include, among other things, the right to erasure (the 'right to be forgotten'), 'clear and affirmative consent' to the processing of personal data by the data subject, the right to transfer data to another controller, the notification of data subjects about a personal data breach, ensuring that privacy rules are explained in clear and understandable language and stronger enforcement of fines for companies up to 4% of their total annual worldwide turnover if they breach the rules. this is a great success for the european parliament and a loud european 'yes' to strong consumer rights and competition in the digital age. citizens will be able to decide for themselves what personal information they want to share.
written. ‒ having regard to the recommendation for second reading of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i have endorsed the council's position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive 95/46/ec (general data protection regulation).
written. ‒ the protection of personal data and respect for private life are fundamental rights and the european parliament has always insisted on striking a balance between strengthening security on the one hand and protecting privacy and personal data on the other. this regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data updates the 1995 general data protection directive. it will strengthen citizens' rights to better control over their data and guarantee their privacy protection in the digital age. in a global society where technological change is taking place at a rapid pace, the protection of personal data is of the utmost importance, so i supported this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing council framework decision 2008/977/jha, as this directive, together with the regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, constitutes a package of legislative proposals replacing directive 95/46. the fact is that the process of legislating is much slower than the changes that take place in the social and economic environment through the application of digital technology. the danger is even greater because crime is adapting far more quickly to the 'data' of advanced computer technologies. this directive will contribute to strengthening the efficiency and effectiveness of police forces in the fight against crime and terrorism. this directive constitutes a harmonised framework regulating international policing in the digital society. it provides a framework to contribute to the security and protection of citizens. it includes the protection of privacy, personal freedoms and provides opportunities for high-quality police action.
written. ‒ i have supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the ep and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities/institutions. this makes it easier to prevent crime, easier to investigate, detect and prosecute. the draft legislative resolution is extremely important in my view, as it ensures greater security, easier data processing and ultimately a reduction in criminal activity within the european union.
written. ‒ i support the amendment of framework decision 2008/977/jha as it contains certain shortcomings in its regulation and therefore does not allow the full implementation of the measures needed in the prevention, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. in light of the terrorist attacks, i believe that it is necessary to regulate all legal regulations, especially those that contribute to the safety and protection of our citizens. i agree that the european union's policy based on the right to protection of personal data needs to be strengthened, because it is this principle that guides the european union, that everyone has the right to the protection of his or her identity. the measures also call on member states to improve communication with each other to make the system fully operational, thereby achieving better communication and cooperation across the eu. i believe that the amendments to this framework will lead to a significant improvement in legal certainty in the union and will enable and facilitate the competent authorities to carry out their duties and tasks necessary for the protection of the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of this directive which will address cross-border data transfers within the eu and will, for the first time, set minimum standards for data processing for police purposes in each member state. the new rules aim to protect individuals, whether victims, criminals or witnesses, by setting out clear rights and restrictions on the transfer of data for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, including the protection and prevention of threats to public security, while facilitating smooth and effective cooperation between law enforcement authorities. the main problem with terrorist attacks and other international crimes is that member states are reluctant to share valuable information. by setting european standards for the exchange of information between competent authorities, the data protection directive will become a powerful and useful tool to help authorities transfer personal data in a simple and efficient manner, while respecting the fundamental right to privacy.
written. ‒ having regard to the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i have endorsed the council's position at first reading on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing council framework decision 2008/977/jha.
written. ‒ i supported the directive giving citizens greater control over their own information in the digitised world of smartphones, social media and online banking. i believe that the new rules will protect individuals, whether victims, criminals or witnesses, by setting out clear rights and restrictions on the transfer of data for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, including the protection and prevention of threats to public security. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i believe that the introduction of this law will make it much easier to exchange information and, while respecting the fundamental right to privacy, will bring about a uniform level of data protection in the european union.
written. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks in europe and worldwide have shown the vulnerability of the air system. i believe that in times of security crisis, it is imperative to establish mechanisms for sharing information. i also believe that the proposal provides adequate protection for the privacy of citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime, as i consider that the pnr is needed today. today's global environment, with travel becoming easier and cheaper, and communication becoming faster, also allows for the easy mobility of terrorism and serious crime. the current moment in which the eu is under threat from terrorism is an additional argument for the adoption of this resolution. while i have my doubts about allowing the use, collection and sharing of passenger private information, in conditions where there is a serious risk to the safety of citizens, i support the introduction of the pnr as a measure that will surely reduce that risk and i believe will save many lives. the basis for the adoption of this resolution is the protection of personal data. some countries already have such systems in place, and they have proved effective in preventing human trafficking, kidnapping, drug trafficking, and murder. disagreement between member states on how to regulate this matter is a breeding ground for criminal activity. i believe that a system like this will surely reduce the opportunities for terrorism and criminal activity. the implementation of the system for the use of pnr data should start immediately.
written. ‒ the use of passenger name record (pnr) data is a key instrument offered as a comprehensive and practical solution against terrorist and other criminal activities. the correct implementation of pnr will lead to greater security for union citizens and to the preservation of the fundamental rights of individuals in terms of the protection of personal data. the application of the pnr directive seeks to strike a balance between security and privacy for union citizens. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the application of this directive. using one standardised system at union level achieves a 'european solution', which is much better than 28 different solutions. the application of uniform rules fills the legal gaps that exist and allows for better coordination of information between member states, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support this proposal to amend the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. the primary objective of this amendment is to guarantee safety, protect life and increase public safety and to create a legal framework for the protection and exchange of passenger name record data between member states and law enforcement authorities, as well as between member states and third countries where necessary and legally correct, all with the aim of raising the level of safety of our citizens. i consider that the establishment of a data-filing system is necessary for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators of terrorist offences and serious transnational crime. the commission should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the data contained in the pnr are not used for other purposes than those for which they are intended. the collection and proper use of passenger name record data is part of the common european security strategy and these amendments are another step towards a safer europe.
written. ‒ under the provisions of this directive, member states will have to set up a 'passenger information unit' (piu) to manage the pnr data collected from air carriers. the data would be retained for a period of five years: in the original form for the first six months, and then 'hidden', meaning that certain data from which the data subject could be directly identified, such as name, address and contact details, would be hidden. the directive states that such transfers should be carried out only on a 'case-by-case' basis and exclusively for the specific needs of 'the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences or serious criminal offences'. the directive will apply to all flights from third countries to the eu and vice versa, as well as to flights within the eu. if a member state decides to apply this directive to intra-eu flights, it shall inform the commission in writing. the eu member states may choose to collect and process pnr data from travel agencies and tour operators providing travel-related services, including flight reservations, for which they collect and process pnr data. i consider the reason for adopting this legislative package to be proportionate to the risks we face and i expect full respect for human rights in its implementation.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ pnr data help law enforcement authorities in the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of serious crime, including terrorist offences, as it can be compared with various databases of wanted persons and cases in order to gather evidence and, if necessary, find accomplices and uncover criminal networks. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. member states shall ensure that, in accordance with their national law, dissuasive, effective and proportionate penalties, including fines, are imposed on air carriers and non-air carriers which fail to transmit data required by this directive to the extent that they have already collected them or do not transmit them in an appropriate format, if they do not process them in accordance with the data protection rules laid down in this directive. member states may also continue to apply bilateral or multilateral agreements or mutual arrangements on the exchange of information between competent authorities where those agreements or arrangements are compatible with this directive. the pnr data can be a useful tool for the effective prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime, thereby enhancing internal security.
‒ in december last year, parliament and the council reached agreement on a directive on passenger name record data, which calls for more systematic collection, use and retention of air passengers' personal data, including travel dates, itineraries, contact information and payment information. such an information system can be of great help in investigations, prosecutions, crime prevention, arrests, assessment of travellers and determination of the purpose of their travels. the pnr directive contributes to the fight against organised crime and terrorism and to the creation and maintenance of international security, but it is of paramount importance to ensure a balance between access to travellers' data and the right of european citizens to privacy. i support this report on the use of passenger data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. i believe that a legal framework for the protection and exchange of traveller data between law enforcement authorities and member states is needed to contribute to the safety and protection of the lives of all european citizens.
written. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to guarantee safety, to protect the life and safety of the public and to create a legal framework for the protection and exchange of passenger name record data between member states and law enforcement authorities. the pnr data can help law enforcement authorities in the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of serious transnational crime, including terrorist offences, by allowing them to compare with various databases of wanted persons and items in order to find the necessary evidence and, where necessary, to find accomplices of the perpetrators and to uncover criminal networks. the european union is currently facing serious forms of organised crime and terrorism, and it is therefore important to introduce the proposed system to prevent such acts. i would like to point out that particular attention will be paid to compliance with the standards for the protection of personal data and that unauthorised persons will not be able to use the data processing systems.
written. ‒ as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i have followed the work on the directive. the commission's initial proposal was not very good, but i am very pleased that the priorities of my political group, the socialists and democrats, have been adopted. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the following provisions: we also sent a formal proposal to the commission for an additional legislative proposal to protect whistleblowers.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unauthorised disclosure, use or disclosure, as i believe that an appropriate balance needs to be struck between the protection of trade secrets and fundamental rights. trade secrets are of particular importance for smes and so-called start-ups, given that they often lack the specialised human resources and financial resources to protect their intellectual property rights in an appropriate manner. globalisation has made trade secrets increasingly vulnerable to fraud, theft and espionage, and there is a growing possibility that those secrets may be misused in third countries. i consider that the differences in the member states' legislation on this matter lead to an uneven level of protection of trade secrets and consequently to the fragmentation of the internal market. i believe that the harmonisation of european trade secret law will improve conditions in the sector concerned and therefore i support this report.
written. ‒ businesses and research institutions are constantly investing financial resources and time in acquiring, developing and applying knowledge and information. information and knowledge are key to the development of a knowledge-based and innovation-driven economy and thus provide an advantage over other competitors. information and achievements can be protected by patents, copyrights, and design rights. in addition to 'visible' information and achievements, companies may also possess so-called trade secrets which are strictly confidential and their availability is very limited. the commission has not found that the information provided by the applicant is sufficient to establish that the product concerned is not covered by the scope of the investigation. the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure is key to operating in a dynamic business environment for all companies and research institutions. i supported this report because it defines the appropriate level of protection and the importance of trade secrets in a business environment.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unauthorised acquisition, use or disclosure. the question of the protection of trade secrets is crucial for the success of a given undertaking on the market and its competitiveness in the market competition, but at the same time it is also a challenge for the policy of both recruiting and retaining quality workers within a given undertaking. i support the proposal for a common definition of a trade secret and for laying down general principles applicable to member states in terms of enforcement instruments which should prevent the disclosure of trade secrets. the protection procedures should not be administratively burdensome and care should also be taken to protect business secrets during possible litigation. finally, i would point out that employees should not be prevented from using their experience and skills when changing jobs. it is labour mobility that is key to the eu's competitive economy, and the exchange of knowledge and work experience throughout a career contributes to the success of the individual and the companies in which he or she works.
written. ‒ the proposal on the protection of trade secrets against unauthorised acquisition, use or disclosure is particularly important for identifying rules that improve the competitiveness of european companies through innovation and, more broadly, enhance the image of the european union as a world market leader in the industrial sector. in the process of exploring and creating new ideas, products and services, there is a lot of information that is necessary to maximise future competitiveness, therefore trade secrets, their acquisition, use and disclosure need to be protected and regulated at european level. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend this directive by amending the annex to directive (eu) 2016/797. in view of the above, i welcome this directive of the european parliament.
written. ‒ the proposal for a directive introduces a very broad definition of trade secrets and there is a risk that certain criminal business activities will be protected by this directive. the public interest was jeopardized because the whistleblower was not adequately protected. this directive confers an exclusive right to secrecy on businesses, thus undermining the fundamental freedoms against the protection of business secrets. the directive also interferes in several areas, such as the right of access to information, insufficient protection for whistleblowers, the possibility for workers to change jobs because of the possible disclosure of a trade secret. the proposal for a directive can be linked to the recent negotiations on trade secrets under the ttip. there's a trade secret initiative in the united states at the federal level. the proposal for a directive has been criticised by civil society and journalists, and an online petition has been launched, with over 150 000 signatures so far, to protect whistleblowers at european level. recent scandals, like luxleaks and the panama papers, have highlighted the importance of whistleblowers and investigative journalism to the public interest. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of whistleblowers, the protection of the public interest by denying access to information and the sending of the wrong political message following the recent panama papers scandal.
written. ‒ europe is committed to promoting science and innovation and has the potential to become a world leader in this area. the level of r&d undertaken by companies within the union is, however, insufficient compared to some of the main trading partners, in particular the usa and japan. improving the conditions for innovative business activities is necessary, and the commission has therefore committed itself, within the framework of the wider europe 2020 strategy, to creating an innovation union by protecting investment in fundamental knowledge and creating an innovation-friendly environment in europe. intellectual property rights are a key part of innovation policy and seek to protect creative or creative endeavours. trade secrets are of particular importance for the protection of non-technological innovations. however, the current unevenness and fragmentation of the legal framework on the protection of trade secrets prevents the internal market from functioning effectively. it is essential to improve the intellectual property infrastructure and to review the protection of trade secrets while making relevant information available to the citizens of the european union. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unauthorised acquisition, use or disclosure. the commission should be able to impose a maximum period of five years for the submission of such requests, provided that the conditions laid down in this regulation are met. the commission should be able to assess the impact of trade secrets on the protection of intellectual property rights and the protection of intellectual property rights in the union. i consider it appropriate to define at union level the situations in which the acquisition, use and disclosure of a trade secret is authorised or unauthorised and that it is necessary to limit the period of legal protection in order to allow this directive to fulfil its objective of the consistent protection of trade secrets in the european union.
written. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the estimate of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017, because i consider it of the utmost importance to raise the level of transparency in this process and to make the availability of information much simpler and more open. i believe that budgetary forecasts should be transparent, in line with political priorities and focused on realistic and sustainable planning. the vote against this report is in line with the position of the alde group.
written. ‒ following the discovery of libor benchmark manipulation, the eu introduced changes to the market abuse directive to protect against the manipulation of indices as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. the report notes that the current changes are not sufficient and highlights the need for further strengthening in three other areas. the report also stresses the need to strengthen public administration and its market influence, transparency and efficiency towards end-users and align market demands with those of the states. the report proposes to provide additional measures to safeguard benchmarks and regulate their application, ensure the stability of benchmarks and their transparency. the integrity of benchmarks is crucial for determining market prices and financial instruments such as loans, credits, legal contracts and interest rates, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ the report and the 2017 budget itself are characterised by the continuation and strengthening of the institution's policy of increasing efficiency wherever possible, without reducing the quality of the working environment of members and staff. parliament should have at its disposal sufficient resources to exercise all its powers and to function properly. efficiency in the use of public funds must be ensured. the budget should be transparent and understandable to users so that we all have a better understanding of how parliament's money is spent. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the support to members for the discharge of their mandates and the coverage of members' expenses should remain at the 2016 levels and i consider that there is no need to increase it. the management of buildings, staff, transport and communication services are important items in parliament's budget. they should be streamlined to the maximum while making efficient use of the resources allocated to them.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ this is the second full budgetary procedure to be carried out in the new legislative session and the fourth under the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the secretary-general proposed four priority objectives for the 2017 budget, namely: security and cybersecurity, the gradual abolition of the irish language exception, permanent measures to support members in the discharge of their mandate and enhancing the attractiveness of parliament to the public and visitors. in the current political and security context resulting from terrorist attacks in europe, the 2017 budgetary procedure should result in an increase in the security and cybersecurity of parliament. i welcome the expansion of the digital portal for members (e-portal), however, i would urge the secretary-general to improve the current system of sending copies of salary certificates to members in paper format with a view to finally abolishing this system by the end of 2017, in view of the 'paperless' workplace initiative. i also believe that the e-portal should provide this service automatically to all members by electronic means, which would result in considerable time and money savings. i welcome the increasing quality of advice and research available to members and committees and support this report.
written. ‒ the 2017 budget should be characterised by the continuation and strengthening of the institution's policy of increasing efficiency without reducing the quality of the working environment of members and staff. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. since a number of proposals which could reasonably reduce the amount of the budget were not accepted, i voted against this report.
written. ‒ i support this 2015 report on turkey which, among other things, talks about how migration cooperation should be separated from the eu accession negotiation process. turkey deserves all the credit for retaining the largest immigrant population in the world, but also a country that is a key strategic partner for eu accession needs to make progress on the rule of law and fundamental values as a prerequisite for eu membership.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the commission's 2015 report on turkey as it reflects my own views. there is a problem of a backsliding in recent years in respect for democracy and the rule of law and a significantly slower implementation of reforms. the delay of the commission's 2015 progress report after the turkish elections in november 2015 was wrong because it created the impression that the eu was willing to overlook fundamental rights violations in exchange for the turkish government's cooperation on refugees. the strengthening of the political dialogue between the eu and turkey in the field of foreign and security policy is positive. turkey urgently needs reforms in the judiciary and in the area of human rights, justice and freedom. there has been a serious backsliding in the last two years in terms of freedom of speech, expression and opinion both online and in traditional media. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the necessary measures to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected by the union's budget. it strongly condemns the terrorist attacks in turkey and expresses its solidarity with the victims and the turkish people.
written. ‒ accession negotiations with turkey were opened in 2005 and are the basic starting point for a long-term and open-ended process based on strict conditionality, motivation for reform and respect for the legal framework. today, turkey still has candidate status, and the whole accession process has been slowed down by the implementation of eu legislation. in some areas, such as freedom of expression and freedom of public assembly, there has been a significant backsliding, which has made the security situation in turkey very questionable. negotiations and cooperation between the eu and turkey need to be improved. the union should therefore make greater efforts to stabilise turkey, especially in times of migration crisis. turkey, as a potential partner, has a key role to play in the fields of energy, trade and certain industrial products. i supported the report on turkey because i consider turkey to be a very important and strategic partner for the union.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because it correctly identifies all the key problems and i consider the recommendations made in it to be real recommendations for the progress of turkish democracy, but also for eu cooperation with turkey and turkey's rapprochement with the eu. turkey must strengthen its institutions and continue the process of democratisation and modernisation. when we talk about eu-turkey cooperation in the refugee crisis, i think it's important to separate the negotiation process from the joint agreement between turkey and the eu. in this context, i would like to stress that turkey must respect its obligations and avoid any forced illegal return of refugees to syria. according to amnesty international, some incidents of this nature have been observed including the forced return of women and children. as the resolution also points out, i believe that turkey should use the €3 billion available to it from the refugee instrument in an appropriate way. the protection of human rights is also crucial, especially the rights of women and children, as well as the protection of religious minorities.
written. ‒ i am concerned that, in light of the setbacks in respect for democracy and the rule of law in turkey in recent years, the implementation of reforms has been generally and significantly slow in recent years. i welcome the strengthening of the political dialogue between the eu and turkey in the field of foreign and security policy and the fact that in 2015 turkey increased its compliance with eu statements and council decisions. the fight against corruption should be one of turkey's priorities. turkey needs a renewed anti-corruption strategy and action plan, an independent anti-corruption body and reliable records of investigations, judicial proceedings and judgments, including for high-level cases.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution report on turkey for 2015, as turkey needs to be brought closer to the union on membership. in 2015, turkey provided assistance to more than 2 million refugees from syria and iraq, and the action plan for refugees and migrants was welcomed by the council of europe. the growing number of refugees is a challenge to the turkish economy, which has spent over 6.7 billion euros to care for them. the pace of reform has slowed, largely because of long and complex elections. the turkish government is trying to strengthen the eu accession process, but some policies adopted in 2015, such as the rule of law, freedom of expression and assembly, are at odds with european standards. reforms in public administration are moderate, the legal system is under great political pressure, corruption is widespread. financial investigations and asset freezes are still underused in the fight against organised crime. civil society has continued to grow, but a comprehensive legal framework is needed to strengthen women's rights, the lgbt community and the social inclusion of roma. freedom of expression and assembly must be improved. the internet law allowing content blocking without a court order needs to be changed to european standards. the lack of progress in the normalisation of bilateral relations with cyprus is also one of the political problems of the turkish authorities.
written. ‒ accession negotiations with turkey were opened on 3 october 2005 and the opening of these negotiations is the starting point for a long-term and open-ended process based on fair and rigorous conditions and a commitment to reform. the eu remains committed to further enlargement as a key policy for promoting peace, democracy, security and prosperity in europe. i would express concern that, in the light of the decline in respect for democracy and the rule of law in turkey in recent years, the implementation of reforms in general has been considerably delayed. in some key areas, such as the independence of the judiciary and freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and respect for human rights and the rule of law, there has been a setback which places turkey far from meeting the copenhagen criteria to which candidate countries must adhere. i am in favour of structured and more frequent and open political dialogue at high level on key thematic issues of common interest such as migration, the fight against terrorism, energy, the economy and trade. turkey should also further align its foreign policy with the eu's foreign policy, in line with the provisions of the negotiating framework. i would urge turkey to increase its efforts to resolve ongoing bilateral issues, including outstanding legal obligations and disputes with its immediate neighbours over land, sea and air borders, in accordance with the provisions of the un charter and international law.
written. ‒ accession negotiations with turkey for eu membership started back in 2005. the negotiations have slowed down due to the implementation of eu legislation. cooperation and negotiations need to be improved because of turkey's vital role for the eu, especially in the economy and energy. the eu and turkey also need to engage in an intensive dialogue on migration. i support the report on turkey for 2015. i consider turkey to be an important strategic partner of the eu primarily because of its unique geographical position. turkey is a transit country that is essential for the security of europe as a whole and is key to resolving the refugee crisis in europe. i also support the financial resources given to turkey to deal with the refugee problem. i believe that turkey must be helped in the refugee crisis because this is a major issue that concerns the whole of the european union.
written. ‒ i support this report and welcome albania's continued progress in meeting the key priorities for the opening of accession negotiations. further efforts are needed, particularly in the area of judicial reform, and i call on all political parties in albania to reach consensus on these issues. i believe that opening accession negotiations as soon as possible would give an even stronger impetus to positive transformations in the country.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following the statements by the council and the commission pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure on the 2015 report on albania (2015/2896 ((rsp)) as there is visible progress in the implementation of reforms. what is still worrying is the lack of genuine and constructive political dialogue. it is necessary to maintain a commitment to building a democratic political culture that is open to dialogue, negotiation and compromise and in which there is no place for boycotts and radicalism. in this respect, there is a problem of lack of cooperation and compromise in the albanian delegation which makes it difficult to have a meaningful debate in the eu-albania stabilisation and association parliamentary committee. the commitment to judicial and public administration reform, improved cooperation between the public sector and civil society, an atmosphere of religious tolerance, the fight against radicalisation and albania's overly active role in regional cooperation are commendable. on the other hand, there are problems of corruption, organised crime, poor environmental care, an underdeveloped market economy, interference with the editorial autonomy of the media and widespread self-censorship.
written. ‒ albania has a lot of work ahead of it in terms of improving the rule of law, judicial reform and public administration. there are clear provisions in albanian law on the protection of human rights, but these are not always respected and often the rights of minorities are not protected. albania should also devote further efforts to developing and strengthening its economy, in particular fiscal consolidation, competitiveness and stimulating economic growth. i supported the report on albania because there is visible progress in reforms, but albania still has a long way to go in judicial reform and boosting the economy.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because it recognises the progress that albania has made and encourages further efforts to bring albania closer to european standards. i believe it is important to provide additional support to albania. i remind you that political dialogue between the parties is very important, and a boycott of parliament is not effective for either party, least of all for the citizens. i therefore welcome the fact that all misunderstandings in this regard have been overcome and that both the opposition and the government are working successfully with the venice commission. although albanian laws are in line with the eu acquis, the albanian authorities need to focus more on their implementation, which is also stated in the resolution. i want to emphasise that the fight against organised crime and corruption is essential for the progress of albania, but also for the stability of the whole region. in this regard, i welcome the fact that albania has adopted a strategy to combat corruption and strengthened international police cooperation. i hope that albania will continue to work on its five priority reforms and continue to focus on european integration.
written. ‒ i welcome albania's continued progress in implementing reforms linked to the five key priorities that are necessary for the start of accession negotiations. i commend albania for continuing to be a constructive partner in the region and a proactive participant in regional cooperation. it is of the utmost importance to maintain good neighbourly relations, which remain crucial. i am concerned about the widespread corruption, particularly in education, health, justice, public procurement, public-private partnership concessions, construction and land-use planning, local government and public services; local government needs to be strengthened. i welcome the adoption of the national anti-corruption strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. i am pleased that the report for the first time includes the amendment i tabled, which relates to the problem of waste management, in particular marine litter.
written. ‒ albania signed the stabilisation and association agreement in 2006. following its accession to nato and its application for accession to the european union, albania was granted candidate status on 26 june 2014. following progress in negotiations and implementation of reforms, albania has established a national council for european integration which should further facilitate the implementation of reforms. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the budget for the 2016 financial year. there are also problems of corruption, human rights and organised crime that should be addressed as soon as possible. i support the motion for a resolution on the report on albania for 2015. i consider that albania is making steady progress towards eu membership and i welcome the good cooperation of the political leadership in albania with the eu institutions. for croatia, albania's accession is of paramount importance as albania is key to further stabilising the entire region. the eu has also provided a number of instruments to support the implementation of the eu's external relations policy.
written. ‒ implementation of reforms in albania is linked to five key priorities that are necessary for the start of accession negotiations, which include a thorough reform of the judiciary, encouraging the government, parliament and political parties of albania to maintain the implementation of the reforms started. given that there is a political consensus in albania on the european union accession process that enjoys broad public support, the relationship between the european union and albania contains a constructive dialogue that is essential for a successful and sustainable reform process. i welcome the adoption of the national anti-corruption strategy for 2015-2020 and the action plan for 2015-2017 and believe that progress in judicial reform will significantly improve the fight against corruption and organised crime. in view of albania's great progress, driven by a number of reforms, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following the statements by the council and the commission pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure on the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina, in view of the progress made in the european integration processes and in view of the unequivocal commitment to the european perspective of bih. i welcome the application for eu membership submitted by bih on 15 february 2016 and expect the european institutions to act swiftly on this application. the eu-bih association council has adopted a decision on the establishment of a coordination mechanism for eu matters. constitutional, legal and political reforms are needed to transform bih into a fully functioning and effective state. bih still has major problems with corruption, problems in the judiciary, economic problems and high unemployment, especially long-term unemployment and youth unemployment. in bih, there is still insufficient cooperation between the government and the non-governmental sector, and the legal and institutional framework for respecting human rights requires improvement. i support the commission's decision to authorise the export of milk and milk products from bih to the eu, as well as the participation of bih in the eu erasmus programme. i believe that even greater support from the european institutions is needed for the bis european path.
‒ bosnia and herzegovina has submitted an official application for eu membership. this event is a clear indicator of bih's european orientation. it now has the task of bringing national legislation into line with european legislation. first of all, it is necessary to adopt a reform program where the citizens of bih will be the focus of social, economic and institutional reforms, and all three peoples equal. bih needs an effective mechanism to coordinate all key eu-related issues. in addition to answering key questions, the mechanism should ensure the best possible alignment of national legislation with union legislation, its implementation and effective enforcement. bosnia and herzegovina needs strong political support for a better institutional set-up. it is crucial that bih continues with legal, political and constitutional reforms that will help the functional and democratic shaping of the state. i supported this report because i need support on the road to full membership.
written. ‒ i welcome the clearly expressed position that seeks to guarantee equality and democratic representation of all three constituent peoples in bosnia and herzegovina. unfortunately, croats are a constitutional people only on paper, and their political, civil, social and human rights are systematically violated. i also welcome the position calling on all levels of government in bih to do everything they can to return displaced persons and refugees by introducing and implementing all necessary legislative and administrative measures, as i have also emphasised in one of my amendments. i am particularly pleased that the final text of the resolution includes the text of the amendment which i proposed during the debate in the european parliament's foreign affairs committee on the need for a harmonised legal framework for environmental protection and action against climate change, including cross-border pollution caused by the operation of the oil refinery in bosanski brod. i also welcome the part of the report which calls for steps to be taken to ensure media pluralism and the broadcasting of programmes in all the official languages, including croatian. croats are the only constituent people in bih who do not have a program in their language on national television. finally, i regret that part of the text is not explicitly directed at condemning hate speech that leads to discrimination against croats as one of the three constituent peoples.
written. - i would certainly like to commend the work of rapporteur mr prede. the result is a high-quality and objective report on the progress made by bih in a year that was in many ways unique for the country. the year of progress of bih was formally concluded by the handover of the candidacy for full membership. i see this as an important contribution to the much-needed exit from dayton to the brussels phase of this country. the report records progress but also identifies a number of areas where real results are needed to assess the membership application as successful. we expect a final agreement on the establishment of an effective coordination mechanism. the other two key conditions for progress, the full implementation of the reform agenda and the adaptation of the stabilisation and association agreement, are yet to take place. in parallel, it is necessary to prepare work on future political, electoral and constitutional reforms that will shape bih into a functional, inclusive and efficient state based on the principles of federalism, subsidiarity, equality and equal rights of all its peoples and citizens. as head of the ep delegation for relations with bih, i regret the failure to constitute a joint parliamentary body of the bih assembly and the ep. but we could not allow an attempt to pass into common law provisions involving an ethnic census. i hope that at the next meeting we will adopt a common agenda and contribute to our common goal the european future of bih.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the report on bosnia and herzegovina for 2015. the reform programme launched on 1 july 2015 has started to address the difficult socioeconomic situation and has made visible progress on legal and administrative changes, which is important for the start of the process of bih's application for membership of the union. the commission has also provided a report on the implementation of the new law on the protection of personal data. the constitution of bih needs to be amended because it violates the european convention on human rights and has created a complex mix of institutions whose roles are often questioned. further reforms are needed in the public administration and the legal system. the measures against corruption have been adopted, but the measures adopted still do not receive enough political space, resulting in a negative impact on citizens and institutions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's human rights policy and to monitor the implementation of the eu's human rights policy. in line with european standards, bih is in a very early stage. more financial controls, processing of the 2013 population census, improvement of conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, agriculture, energy, climate change policy and in the field of information and media are needed.
written. ‒ eu accession is a comprehensive process that requires a consensus on a reform programme in which bih citizens must be at the centre of institutional, economic and social reforms. the eu has initiated a new approach towards bih to advance towards the eu and to address the country's exceptional socio-economic and rule of law challenges, enabling it to prepare for future membership, and in line with that approach, the stabilisation and association agreement entered into force on 1 june 2015. i would stress the importance of the role of civil society at local level in the peace and reconciliation process, and in particular the participation of young people in intercultural dialogue and exchange, as well as in politics. i am deeply concerned by the statements of the minister of internal affairs of the republic of srpska on the future training of the special police units of the republic of srpska in the russian federation and on the deepening of cooperation, in particular in relation to the exchange of information and the intention to purchase russian military equipment. the electoral law and electoral system must provide the possibility for all three constituent peoples and all other citizens to freely and autonomously elect their legitimate political representatives to institutions and authorities.
the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. following a number of positive developments towards the european union, bih submitted an application for eu accession on 15 february 2016, thereby gaining potential candidate status. there are several major issues, including judicial reform and constitutional reform, that must be fully implemented for the candidacy to be positively assessed. also, there are various political pressures on the media, the problem of free speech and corruption, which is crucial for a successful democracy. i support the motion for a resolution on the report on bosnia and herzegovina for 2015. i believe that the eu's rapprochement with bosnia and herzegovina guarantees the cohesion and functionality of the country, ensures stability and prevents disintegration trends. in due course, it is necessary to proceed with constitutional reform that will guarantee the equality of constituent peoples, especially croats as the most minority. i believe that bih should, through negotiations with the european commission, ensure the adjustment of the stabilisation and association agreement in order to maintain traditional trade between croatia and bih.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the achievement of the objective of combating poverty in the face of rising household costs, because i believe that europe's social dimension needs to be strengthened through an integrated approach and through the modernisation of existing legislation. inequality in the european union is rising and the rate of citizens living on the edge of poverty is still too high. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on poverty reduction and social inclusion, in particular through the european social fund. in this context, in order to reduce poverty, in particular extreme poverty, it is necessary to reduce household costs in an effective way through better management of the funds earmarked for this purpose. i also believe that it is particularly important to insist on the involvement of various actors and measures in this process in order to act in a coordinated way in the fight against poverty and in the achievement of energy efficiency and renewable energy targets.
‒ the european union, in its drive to reduce poverty, is moving further and further away from the targets set in the eu2020 strategy. poverty and social exclusion are key determinants of a country's economic condition and indicators of living conditions. in the union, 11% of the population spend more than 40% of their disposable income on housing costs, 10,8% of the population face difficult conditions for maintaining domestic heating and 12 million more women than men live in poverty. the situation of social exclusion and poverty was further exacerbated by the impact of the crisis, which affected all households and forced member states to reduce social spending and to focus on economic objectives. i supported this report because it points to the burning problem of poverty and the need to define a minimum income as an instrument in reducing and preventing poverty.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to introduce concrete measures to prevent further poverty. the poverty line has crossed all boundaries and the situation is unsustainable. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that youth unemployment in the eu is increasing day by day. i am also concerned about the position and the number of women who outnumber men in poverty. i therefore welcome the emphasis on the importance of the education of women and girls to empower them culturally, socially and politically and to provide them with a life of dignity. i support a measure whereby each member state would provide its citizens with adequate support covering a minimum income and provide them with the necessary assistance to combat poverty. i am particularly in favour of introducing a minimum pension that should not be below the poverty line, because it has been shown that in croatia alone almost half a million pensioners live in poverty and have no means for basic necessities of life. the commission will continue to support the development of the european schools in the context of the european year of the elderly, and will continue to support the development of the european schools in the context of the european year of the elderly.
written. ‒ between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu increased from 117 million to 122.6 million. the poverty threshold is set at 60% of the national mean value of disposable income equivalent and 12 million more women than men live in poverty in the eu. factors contributing to this inequality include the gender pay and pension gap, the high number of women in precarious employment and the fact that women are often forced to be economically inactive for longer periods due to the unaffordable cost of childcare. i regret that the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased, despite the europe 2020 strategy's aim of reducing the number of people in this category by at least 20 million. member states should provide adequate and easily accessible support, including a minimum income above the poverty line for as long as necessary and the different types of benefits necessary to address poverty.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the light of the rising cost to households, as it brings about certain changes in the currently unsustainable energy waste system and is oriented towards investments in sustainable energy sources and energy efficiency which will result in improving living conditions and reducing household costs and stimulating investment at regional and local level. between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion in the eu27 has been steadily increasing and prices in the european energy market are converging, although purchasing power is not growing at the same pace. the 2012 energy efficiency directive calls on member states to develop programmes to raise awareness of energy efficiency. the report stresses that member states must adopt integrated frameworks to combat energy poverty, accept a european moratorium on winter heating, and target the use of european structural and investment funds at national, regional and local level. the report also proposes to use tax revenues from industrial energy consumers for measures to help low-income households, including measures aimed at energy efficiency and financing social security systems, which can lead to a lower burden on labour costs.
written. ‒ one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by 20 million. and that's hard to do right now, because between 2008 and 2013, that number grew from 117 million to 122 million people. a breakthrough would bring about advances in energy conservation and reduce the number of people at risk of poverty. since the start of the crisis, youth unemployment has also risen, now at 20%. i support the report on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the light of the rising costs to households. i believe that access to housing is a fundamental human right from which many other rights are derived. very often, in households across the eu, access to housing and the rise in family spending are the biggest expenditure and political will from all member states and eu institutions is needed to tackle this problem.
written. ‒ i support this report on the private sector and development. the role of the private sector in developing countries has been increasing in recent years, with the aim of increasing the middle class in developing countries. in the new global challenges, such as climate change, the private sector can play a key role as private actors can bring expertise, innovation and efficiency to policy development. however, the role of the private sector is also full of responsibility and development goals must not be distorted.
written. ‒ i voted for the private sector and development report (2014/2205(ini)), given that the private sector is the driver of wealth creation and economic growth and accounts for 90% of jobs and income in developing countries, and according to the un, the private sector accounts for 84% of gdp in developing countries. the eu should play a leading role in the world in the fight against poverty and sustainable development, and the role of the private sector is increasingly important in the face of cuts in support budgets. in addition to public grants and cooperation with the public sector in developing countries, it is necessary to create conditions for private investment, public-private partnerships, involve the eu banking sector and create conditions for private sector development in developing countries and strengthen civil society organisations. i support the steps outlined in the report that need to be taken to make the private sector a sustainable partner in development policy.
written. ‒ the private sector is an important driver of national wealth creation and economic growth in all market-oriented economies. it is responsible for achieving long-term sustainable development. but sustainable development cannot be achieved when there are administrative barriers and regulations, as in the case of developing countries. in addition to the existing barriers, smes in developing countries lack the legal protection to allow them to operate unhindered in the market. the creation of a favourable business environment free of unnecessary administrative and regulatory barriers is key to allow smes to enter the so-called formal sector of the economy, thereby stimulating further private sector growth. this can only be done through effective and well-designed public-private partnerships that make private and public funding available. the establishment of public-private partnerships facilitates the response to macroeconomic challenges and risks, political risks and achieves sustainable development. i supported this report because it shows the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises and their impact on the economy. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission.
written. ‒ i support measures to bring order and improve the functioning of the private sector. we know that the private sector is the engine of wealth creation and economic growth in all market economies, and it's also responsible for 90 percent of jobs in developing countries. i believe that fair and progressive taxation combined with criteria of welfare and social justice has a key role to play in reducing inequality by redistributing wealth from higher income citizens to the needy in the country. a public-private partnership modeled on the business practices of developed countries would result in higher employment rates and better lives for our citizens. i welcome the proposal to step up efforts to promote the economic empowerment of women and to establish a support mechanism for women entrepreneurs. all the more so because the savings-led approach to financial inclusion for women has proven successful. i believe that by aligning good governance, the rule of law, anti-corruption measures, public financial management and efficient public institutions, we would see progress in the private sector, which means that citizens would live better lives.
written. ‒ the role of the public sector is crucial to achieving the sdgs. the private sector is the engine of wealth creation and economic growth in all market economies and is responsible for 90% of jobs and income in developing countries. fair and progressive taxation combined with welfare and social justice criteria play a key role in reducing inequality through the redistribution of wealth from higher income citizens to the most needy in the country. more public investment is needed in public services accessible to all, in particular in the transport sector, access to water for human consumption, health and education. i welcome the role that foreign private sector investment in developing countries plays in accelerating domestic development. i also stress the importance of encouraging responsible investment that supports local markets and helps reduce poverty.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
i want to thank the commissioner for her report and the information with which i fully agree. i wrote about the possible threat to schengen in an article in the czech republic and our experts calculated that for the czech republic alone, the immediate abolition of schengen for transport would have the impact of losing half a billion euros per year, i.e. the figures of 15 to 18 billion as an immediate loss in the first year of the introduction of internal borders throughout the eu are in my opinion unfortunately correct. there are a lot of other things that would happen if the internal borders were reestablished, and that would affect commuters. a lot of people work in the neighboring country, commute to work every day. it would have an impact on tourism, especially for, say, short day trips. in short, the impact would be huge, the loss would be not only economic, but also the loss would be spiritual, because people would travel less, visit less, etc. what is important, and the numbers that should still be heard here, are the numbers concerning the credibility of schengen as such. the polls clearly show that today a significant proportion of europeans do not believe in schengen, that a significant proportion of europeans are talking about preferring the restoration of internal borders. i think it's because they feel that the eu and europe as a whole are not handling the refugee crisis. i think, commissioner, that at a time when we feel how important schengen is and that we must not lose it, you should take public opinion into account and accordingly also lead the debate on what further measures to put on the table and propose in the fight against the refugee crisis. i personally fear, and i feel it in the czech republic, that the mandatory introduction of refugee quotas, for example, will not bring that credibility and citizens' faith in the solution, but will instead threaten schengen as such.
mr president, schengen is definitely one of the greatest values that the european union has achieved. schengen is not just easy border crossing, schengen is not just fewer lines or practically nowhere or no lines on border lines where we have schengen. schengen is much more than that. schengen is a symbol. and that is why we must preserve schengen and we must preserve it. we have to do everything. the migrant crisis is a huge burden. it's not easy for us. we know we're talking about money, we know we're talking about big costs, but schengen is a symbol of our freedom. and that is why i expect the commission, i expect the member states, to do everything to preserve schengen.
a lot of questions have been raised today, commissioner. when we talk about autonomous driving, safety is at the forefront. however, a number of other issues such as social, ethical, environmental and technological issues and security issues in terms of data protection are open. we've opened up a series of questions. of course, one of the bigger problems will be infrastructure. who's going to finance all the infrastructure needed for vehicles that will have autonomous driving? but what i want to highlight here is this: this is an opportunity for the european commission to take the momentum of the automotive industry at the european level as the momentum for many other industries within the european union. let us not just let this opportunity slip away and spill over back onto the member countries. we're not gonna make it otherwise. try to run it at the european union level.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regi committee. mr president, there are high expectations, mr hoyer, from the european investment bank. the expectations of smes are high, the expectations of many urban and rural communities, and of local and regional authorities are high. the crisis in many countries has gone on for too long and therefore the expectations for the european investment bank, in support of the public and private sectors, are rightly very high. for example, many countries in eastern europe, croatia, where i come from, need a lot of investment. our expectations are based on what you have said earlier, the reforms you are making in the european investment bank itself and trying to finally have a synergy of cohesion policy, financing of the european investment bank and the juncker fund as part of your bank or our bank. we must take advantage of this synergy and we expect to obtain significant results from this synergy (the speaker agreed to answer the question raised by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. madam member, i agree with you that there are still major administrative barriers. but this is a 2014 report, and we know that between 2015 and this year, the european investment bank has made a number of administrative changes. however, what is an additional problem is that in some member states we have a big additional problem of barriers within the member states of the european union. and there's the problem of getting funding for small and medium-sized businesses.
madam president, entrepreneurs and public enterprises often say that the eib and its staff are professional, quick and easy to communicate with. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not reflected in the capital needs of the bank, but rather in the capital needs of the bank. the eib should better target its services in the member states, taking into account the wide variations in development, but also in the conditions of financing of entrepreneurs. i also expect the eib to report in more detail in the coming periods on the results and role of the implementation of cohesion policy, as well as to answer questions about the extent of participation in overall national funding and whether funding can be extended to entrepreneurs.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regi committee. madam president, (incomprehensible) and i welcome commissioner georgieva. the error rate in cohesion policy in 2014 increased compared to 2013, which should not really surprise us. we've made the system so complicated with all sorts of additional instructions and interpretations that often even the auditors themselves aren't sure what's right and what's wrong and have different interpretations. a complex system subject to interpretation and change leads either to irregularities or to a failure to carry out activities and attitudes because, for fear of making a mistake, many prefer not to use the means and opportunities available to them. this is the case with financial instruments whose instructions are so complicated that it is easier not to use them despite the advantages and benefits they bring. a clear and simple system is the way to reduce irregularities, as well as investing in education and establishing quality financial management and control systems. this is the investment in prevention that we need to work on most with the aim of a rapid and successful implementation of the cohesion and other eu policies and, of course, with the aim of a high-quality implementation of the eu budget.
madam president, according to a report by the organization physicians for human rights, in february 2016 alone, there were 358 attacks on health facilities in syria, yet over 90% of those attacks were carried out by the assad regime and its allies. doctors, nurses, aid workers in war zones, they work around the clock and are often forced to operate in areas outside their specialty because of a lack of qualified personnel. that's why we must pay tribute to them for their dedication to helping civilians, for true courage worthy of our admiration. attacks on hospitals are serious violations of international humanitarian law, but it is not enough to prosecute violations of international law, but it is necessary to act and to prosecute those responsible, but this is not easy. we know this well, we who come from countries that were victims of milosevic's aggression and who have witnessed that many criminals have unfortunately gone unpunished.
madam president, violations of international humanitarian law such as attacks on hospitals and schools must be condemned without exception, and the perpetrators of these crimes must be brought to justice. such reckless behavior for no strategic interest should be tolerated or relativized. i'll remind you of the terrible fate that the hospital in vukovar suffered in the croatian war of independence. it is estimated that during the siege of vukovar, up to 700 missiles fell on it per day, after the fall of the city, serb terrorists in collusion with the yugoslav people's army took several hundred wounded and hospital workers from the hospital, tortured and shot. to date, serbia has not returned the stolen hospital records, nor has it made efforts to find out the fate of the people who were taken away from the hospital and lost all trace of them. such a serbia is uncompromisingly supported by many european leaders, but also by members of this house, and croatia is condemned for not allowing it to be humiliated.
madam president, it seems that we have learned very little from the consequences and the events of the wars in the former yugoslavia. what was happening in bosnia and herzegovina, what was happening in croatia, and of course, i want to emphasize the fact that it was schools, hospitals, religious buildings that were the targets of attacks more than 20 years ago. the most disgusting thing is what happened to a really werewolf hospital. yet, it seems that we really have learned nothing. how can we be surprised that it is the civilians who are the most vulnerable and who suffer the most in every war, in every war it is always the same story, in every war there are attacks on schools, attacks especially on hospitals. we really can't have this discussion here without making a firm decision that such crimes, because they are the most heinous crimes against helpless people, really are punished to the maximum.
mr. president, i'm not a deputy, i'm a congressman, but thank you for always trying to be so present and kind to congressmen. what i want to emphasize is certainly the support i want to give to mrs ferrari on this report because it really is her aim to bring the european institutions closer to the citizens. bringing together the european institutions and all that we do, our work here in parliament, but also in the other institutions of the european union, is really the best and only possible way to regain the trust of our fellow citizens, because, let's face it, today the idea of europe is still having serious problems, and one of the reasons is our bureaucratic system. so what i want to suggest in closing is: let's take the word transparency out of our vocabulary, and let's put the word openness in our vocabulary. that's the word i'm looking for. the openness of our institutions to citizens and the ability to access all the information they need.
mr. president, in a conflict situation when there's a problem between married couples, parents, children are usually the ones who suffer. parents are selfish and often protect only their own interests or their love for their child, but it often does not have to be just. so the least we have to do when we have mobility and when we have the lives of different families from different countries or when it's about different countries and when we have our mobility, we really have to do everything to have the right legal regulation at the european level. there's one more detail i want to emphasize. there are many situations in the area i come from, in the balkans. the over-networking of people living in the candidate countries with the member states is an additional problem and i ask that this be taken into account in future negotiations with the candidate countries and this regulation.
mr. president, unfortunately, the digital age is also witnessing inequality today. the industrial age, the age of agriculture when it was necessary to be strong, tall or in industry when it was necessary to lift something heavy, can partly understand such problems of equality. today, however, that is absolutely not warranted. and so not only through the education system, which is of course very important for all girls and young women to be able to get educated in computing, we have to take advantage of something that we have today, and we have good examples. this report is, of course, something i will be happy to support because it expresses all the convictions i personally hold, but i would ask the rapporteur to show good examples because that is what is important. to see what are the good examples, the good practices within the european union, where women have succeeded in this digital age and in that way to show by example how it can be done.
mr president, 1312 agricultural products produced in the european union proudly bear the name of a protected product of geographical origin. this represents some €60 billion in revenue for rural areas in the european union and some €15 billion in export revenue, mostly to the united states. the quality of our products is part of our culture, our dietary habits, but also, and i am deeply convinced of this, our advantage and competitiveness on the world market. we must develop these protected products further, extend protection to new products, and of course take advantage of the superior quality of our agricultural products on the world market. however, this also includes the need to produce these protections through the ttip negotiations, as without this there will be no improvement for the rural areas of the european union.
mr president, relations between the west and turkey have had their ups and downs, but that does not change the fact that turkey has been and remains a very important partner for us, and with such partners we must constantly maintain productive relations based on mutual respect and esteem. turkey has been criticized too often in the european institutions without any great basis, and european leaders have not been willing to understand the specificity of turkish society and the geopolitical circumstances in which turkey exists today. so our alliance with turkey came under question at a very bad time, and it took a long time for our partner and i to agree on a joint management of the migration crisis. i am glad that we have finally succeeded in this, but i also hope that we will not give in to turkey when it comes to the abolition of the visa regime and that we will seek to meet all the technical conditions. we cannot trade the safety of our citizens.
written. the agreement with turkey is necessary to create a legal framework for the unsustainable situations we have been witnessing for more than a year. it's not ideal, but it's necessary! the human trafficking and its tragedy in the mediterranean, which has been going on for years, must be stopped. in this demanding work, millions of refugees in turkey must be granted the right to protection and care, and children the right to education. it is also a prerequisite for what refugees want: a safe return to syria and the resumption of normal life in their country. turkey and greece have a strong commitment to work together to ensure the implementation of the agreement on the european union border. for this reason, and many others, it is good that both governments are willing to cooperate as never before. the visa regime that should be abolished for turkish citizens should be abolished under one condition: turkey must comply with all the eu regulations that are required in such a situation!
written. a comprehensive strategy is needed to deal with the migrant crisis, with an emphasis on restoring control of the eu's external borders. turkey as one of the key partners of the european union must be part of the solution to the migration crisis. the eu-turkey statement of 18 march confirms the commitment to implement the joint action plan to provide protection to migrants and to end human trafficking. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of asylum applications submitted by greece, the number of asylum applications received by the member states and the number of applications received by the commission. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's asylum policy, including on the implementation of the union's asylum policy, and on the implementation of the union's asylum policy. the european commission and the european council shall monitor the situation of human rights and freedom of expression and the situation of syrian refugees in turkey. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures provided for in this decision are in conformity with the union's competition policy.
mr president, railways are europe's oldest system for transporting passengers and goods, but unfortunately they have been unfairly neglected over the last few decades at the expense of road and air transport. i therefore see this fourth railway package, which is to enable the much-needed interoperability of rail transport, increase traffic safety and strengthen the european railway agency, as a historic opportunity to create a single railway area of the european union after the establishment of the single airspace. who will all benefit from a single railway area? all conditions will be provided to ensure that our citizens return to the railways, but by providing them with a better quality of service, faster and safer travel and all this at a lower cost of travel. the european investment bank (eib) will support the development of the european union's railway infrastructure and the modernisation of its railway network, which will contribute to the creation of new green jobs and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from transport. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission to the member states.
written. i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, given that the act of accession of the republic of croatia provides that croatia will accede to agreements concluded or signed by eu member states and the union with one or more third countries prior to its accession to the union, on the basis of the protocol to those agreements. the purpose of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia.
the agreement on a common aviation area between the european union, its member states and georgia was concluded on the basis of a council decision adopted in 2009. the agreement with georgia signed in 2010 is the first comprehensive air transport agreement signed with a strategic partner in the caucasus. in accordance with the act of accession to the european union, croatia has undertaken to sign agreements with third countries with which the union has already signed agreements and established diplomatic relations. i have supported this report on the amendment of the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, in the context of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
written. ‒ the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia was agreed on the basis of the council decision of june 2009 authorising the opening of negotiations and signed on 2 december 2010. in accordance with the treaty on the accession of the republic of croatia, croatia is to accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the eu member states and the union with one or more third countries on the basis of the protocols annexed to those agreements prior to its accession to the union. the purpose of this act is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia by making the necessary and relevant linguistic adjustments to the accompanying protocol. the protocol does not introduce substantive amendments to the common aviation area agreement. for all of the above, i supported this decision.
written. ‒ i give my consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia agreed on the basis of the council decision of june 2009 authorising the opening of negotiations. the commission notes that the agreement with georgia was the first comprehensive air service agreement signed with an important aviation partner in the caucasus. the agreement is an integral part of the external aviation policy framework established by the commission. i am pleased that the protocol will enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia (article 1) and to make the necessary and relevant linguistic adjustments to the protocol (article 2).
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia was agreed on the basis of a council decision adopted in june 2009 and signed on 2 december 2010. the commission notes that the air carrier air astana has been granted a number of concessions in the past, including the extension of the air carrier's operations to the rest of the world. the republic of croatia became a full member of the european union on 1 july 2013 and will, in accordance with the act of accession, accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the eu member states and the union with one or more third countries prior to its accession to the union on the basis of the protocols annexed to those agreements. the purpose of that protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia and to make the necessary and relevant linguistic adjustments to the protocol without changing the content of the agreement. in view of the above, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia was signed in 2010 and was agreed on the basis of the 2009 council decision authorising the opening of negotiations. the commission notes that the agreement between the air carrier and the air carrier is a key element of the union's policy on air transport. i support the recommendation to amend the common aviation area agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia. by its accession to the eu, croatia has undertaken to accede to agreements concluded or signed by the member states and the union with one or more third countries or international organisations. the approval of the protocol, which will include all necessary linguistic adaptations to the agreement resulting from the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu, will allow croatia to freely accede to this agreement, which is a very important element in the development of the eu's external aviation and neighbourhood policy and the establishment of the wider european common aviation area (ecaa).
the european union's agreement with georgia was the first comprehensive air transport agreement signed with an important aviation partner in the caucasus. given that the republic of croatia acceded to the union on 1 july 2013, in accordance with the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia will accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the member states of the european union and the union with one or more third countries before its accession to the union. the purpose of this protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia. the protocol makes the necessary and relevant linguistic adjustments but does not introduce substantive amendments to the common aviation area agreement and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union and its member states, of the protocol amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, given that the act of accession of the republic of croatia provided that croatia would accede to the agreements which, prior to its accession to the union, member states and the union had concluded or signed with one or more third countries on the basis of the protocol to those agreements. the protocol enables the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel.
written. ‒ the euro-mediterranean agreement was signed in 2013 and is crucial for the european union because of israel's geostrategic position. in the framework of that, croatia became a member state in 2013 and committed itself to sign agreements signed by the union with third countries. i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union and its member states, of the protocol amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
‒ the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel was agreed on the basis of a council decision adopted in april 2008. the agreement with israel was signed on 10 june 2013 as a key aviation partner in the mediterranean region. the commission notes that the airports in the region are not eligible for the financial contribution from the eagf. in accordance with the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia will accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the member states and the union with one or more third countries prior to its accession to the union, on the basis of the protocols annexed to those agreements. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia acceded to the union, becoming its 28th member state. the commission has negotiated with the israeli authorities a protocol to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the protocol was signed on 19 february 2015. in order to conclude it, the council needs the consent of the european parliament. in accordance with rule 99 and rule 108 (7) of the rules of procedure, parliament shall act by a single vote and the text of the agreement may not be amended. i supported this agreement in order to establish the best possible external aviation policy between the eu and the mediterranean.
written. ‒ the european parliament, having regard to the draft council decision (12265/2014) and the protocol, gave its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel was agreed on the basis of the council decision of april 2008 authorising the opening of negotiations. the agreement was signed on 10 june 2013. in accordance with the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia will accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the member states and the union with one or more third countries on the basis of the protocols annexed to those agreements prior to its accession to the union. the purpose of the protocol will be to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel and to introduce the necessary and relevant linguistic adaptations into the protocol. the protocol does not introduce substantive amendments to the euro-mediterranean agreement. i support this protocol because it not only deals with the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and the state of israel but also with the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ on the basis of the council decision of april 2008, a euro-mediterranean aviation agreement was agreed between the european union, its member states and the state of israel, which was signed on 10 june 2013. the agreement with israel is an important milestone in the process of establishing a common airspace between the european union and its southern and eastern neighbours. the republic of croatia became a full member of the european union on 1 july 2013 and will, in accordance with the act of accession, accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the eu member states and the union with one or more third countries prior to its accession to the union, on the basis of the protocols annexed to those agreements. the purpose of that protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel and to make the necessary and relevant linguistic adjustments to the protocol, without thereby changing the content of the agreement. in view of the above, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the european commission has developed a framework for an external aviation policy, with the important objective of establishing common air traffic between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and israel, which is essential for the achievement of the commission's objectives, was signed on 10 june 2013. croatia acceded to the eu on 1 july 2013 and has committed itself to sign agreements concluded by member states and the union with a country before accession. this protocol would make croatia one of the signatory states to the euro-mediterranean agreement. i support the recommendation on the draft decision amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the eu and israel. i consider the agreement to be important because it ensures the safety of joint air traffic with israel. this protocol will incorporate the necessary linguistic adaptations and thereby include croatia in the agreement.
written. ‒ the agreement with israel, a key aviation partner in the mediterranean region, is an important milestone in the process of establishing a common airspace between the european union and its southern and eastern neighbours. the european commission has negotiated with the israeli authorities a protocol to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, given that croatia became the 28th member state of the union on 1 july 2013. as the purpose of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel, i have endorsed the protocol amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement. the protocol does not introduce substantive amendments to the euro-mediterranean agreement, except to make the necessary and relevant linguistic adjustments to the protocol.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, given that the act of accession of the republic of croatia provided for croatia to have access to documents drawn up or signed by the eu member states and the union before its accession.
written. ‒ i have signed the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations (accession of croatia). i consider the interconnection of customs administrations within the territory of the union to be of the utmost importance. better connectivity through simpler procedures and protocols contributes to better linking member states and to easier prevention of criminal activities.
written. ‒ the treaty on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union introduced a simplified system for the accession of the republic of croatia to the conventions and protocols signed by member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union or article 293 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provide the basis for croatia's accession to the conventions and protocols concluded between member states in the preceding period. the above also refers, inter alia, to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. i supported this recommendation because it fills a possible legal void created by the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu within the timeframe provided and simply incorporates, by making the necessary and relevant linguistic adaptations and without changing the substantive content of the convention, the fact of croatian accession to the eu as one of the parties to this convention. the legal orderly functioning of the convention is also necessary for the sustainable functioning of the customs administration at international level.
written. ‒ the european parliament, taking into account the commission's proposal to the council, article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession of the republic of croatia, on the basis of which the council consulted parliament, accepted the commission's proposal, invited the council to inform it if it intended to depart from the text adopted by parliament and asked the council to consult it again if it intended to substantially amend the text adopted by parliament. i agree with parliament's decision to accept the commission's proposal, especially as the text also considers the situation of croatia as the newest member state almost 3 years after its accession to the eu.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the act of accession of the republic of croatia introduced a simplified system for croatia's accession to the conventions and protocols. that act provides for the adoption by the council of a decision to fix the date of entry into force of those conventions and protocols for croatia and to make any necessary adjustments to those conventions and protocols. the act of accession lists conventions and protocols in the field of justice and home affairs, including the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations.
written. ‒ i supported croatia's accession to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, as the act of accession already provides for croatia's accession to the conventions and protocols signed by the member states and it was not necessary to initiate either a consultation with interested parties or an impact assessment of this accession. this convention covers mutual assistance and cooperation in criminal investigations relating to infringements of national customs provisions and of community customs provisions in respect of which the applicant has jurisdiction under the national provisions of the member state concerned. the customs authorities shall apply this convention within the limits of the powers conferred upon them in accordance with national provisions. the provisions of this convention shall not be construed to affect the powers conferred on customs administrations in accordance with the provisions of this convention.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr bolesław g. piecha on the grounds that he was driving too fast in a populated area and that the alleged offence was committed before mr piecha became a member of the european parliament. i also believe that it is not intended to damage mr. pieche's political reputation and i have therefore supported this proposal.
written. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the polish chief inspector of road traffic for the waiver of immunity to the polish member of the european parliament, mr bolesław g. piech. since the alleged offence is speeding in a populated area, the further procedure requires the member's immunity to be waived by the european parliament. the alleged infringement was committed while bolesław g. piecha was a member of the polish senate and therefore has no direct connection with bolesław g. piecha's membership of the european parliament and it is difficult to establish the circumstances of the present application. i therefore supported the proposal for a decision of the european parliament to waive the parliamentary immunity of polish mep bolesław g. piech.
written. ‒ the polish prosecutor general forwarded the request of the polish chief inspector of road traffic to waive immunity for the allegedly committed offence of speeding. on the basis of the above, the commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. since the investigation procedure cannot be conducted without the waiver of immunity, i support the request to waive the immunity of mr bolesław g. piech. the commission has not received any comments from the polish authorities on the request for a declaration that the commission has not taken into account the information provided by the polish authorities.
written. ‒ this proposal for a decision advises the european parliament to waive the immunity of mr bolesław g. piech, member of the polish parliament. the polish prosecutor general forwarded the request of the polish chief inspector of road traffic to waive immunity for the allegedly committed offence of speeding. on the basis of the information provided by the polish authorities, the commission considers that the polish authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the polish authorities have failed to fulfil their obligations under the treaty on the functioning of the european union. since the investigation procedure cannot be conducted without the waiver of immunity, i support the request to waive the immunity of mr bolesław g. piech. the commission has not received any comments from the polish authorities on the request for a declaration that the commission has not taken into account the information provided by the polish authorities.
written. ‒ i supported the request to waive the immunity of polish mep bolesław g. piech, who is accused of committing a speeding offence in a populated area. i consider that there is no reason to assume, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion, that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned, since the alleged offence was committed while boleslaw g. piecha was a member of the polish senate. since the prosecutor general of the republic of poland has forwarded the request of the polish highway traffic inspectorate to authorise the initiation of legal proceedings against the representative, i consider it appropriate to waive the representative's immunity and to allow him to be given a fair and impartial trial.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled under rule 216 (2) of the rules of procedure on the protection of the best interests of the child throughout the eu on the basis of the submissions to the european parliament, given that this document takes into account the numerous submissions on the procedures of the authorities responsible for the welfare of children, child custody, child abduction and childcare received by the committee on submissions in recent years from applicants from various eu member states, as well as the recommendations made in the reports on fact-finding visits carried out in some member states. it invites the competent authorities of the eu and the member states and makes recommendations on how to improve and enhance the issue of judicial cooperation and protection of children within the eu, the role of social services in child protection, the issue of child custody proceedings, the issue of child placement and adoption, and the issue of cross-border cases of parental child abduction.
written. ‒ the motion for a resolution stresses the importance of the best interests of the child in all decisions related to childcare issues, at all levels. to that end, it is important that member states strengthen and improve the cooperation of their judicial authorities in cases involving children. in any procedure involving children, parents should be provided with full and clear information about the procedure and its possible consequences. in the best interests of the child, member states must improve the regulation of domestic and foreign adoptions and simplify the bureaucracy in the process of recognising international adoptions that have already been recognised in another member state. whether fostering or adopting children, they need to be provided with accommodation that offers the best opportunities for them to maintain a connection with their cultural environment and to learn and use their mother tongue. i supported this resolution because increased mobility within the eu has led to an increasing number of issues related to the cross-border protection of children, and this resolution provides solutions, improves the implementation of the existing regulation and considers it necessary to involve cross-border mechanisms in addressing this issue.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution because i believe that in all decisions related to childcare issues, the best interests of the child must always come first. the increased mobility within the eu has led to an increasing number of cross-border child protection issues, including custody removal and a high number of child-related cases received, indicating a serious problem in the implementation of the brussels ii regulation, as well as the need to establish an appropriate system for monitoring and assessing cross-border child protection cases within the national coordination framework. as highlighted in the report, member states should act pre-emptively and design appropriate and appropriately funded policies to avoid, where possible, the triggering of a guardian appointment procedure by introducing early warning procedures and providing adequate support to families as primary carers, especially in vulnerable communities. it is worrying that there is no mechanism in the eu for the automatic recognition of adoption decisions issued in other member states and i believe that this area needs to be better regulated taking into account the best interests of each child.
written. ‒ children are the ones who pay the price when a member state fails to cooperate in legislative procedures such as cross-border parental custody disputes and adoption decisions, says the text adopted on thursday. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to impose a fine on the person who has been found guilty of an offence under article 108 (3) tfeu. i join the calls on the member states and the commission to establish rules and ensure that adoption decisions in one country are recognised in another country in order to avoid bureaucratic obstacles. the text emphasises that children, irrespective of the form of the fostering or adoption arrangement, should be provided with accommodation that offers them the best opportunities to maintain a connection with their cultural environment and to learn and use their mother tongue. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against the risks of exposure to ionising radiation. it is also necessary to provide children who are involved in a family cross-border dispute with the right to have regular and direct contact with their parents. the member states must also guarantee the right of parents to visit regularly and allow them to use their mother tongue with their children during their visits.
written. ‒ member states should endeavour to give the best interests of the child the highest priority in their legislation. there is now increased mobility within and outside the eu and therefore a number of issues related to the cross-border protection of children. this includes, among other things, the issue of custody, but also the issue of adoption. the european parliament, in its proposal, calls on the member states to play an active role in the protection of children's interests and to adopt a preventive approach to child protection litigation, judicial cooperation within the eu and the role of social services in child protection. i support this motion for a resolution. furthermore, i believe that children and parents exercising their right to freedom of movement have the right to direct contact with each other. the only exception is when it's against the best interests of the child.
written. ‒ when it comes to childcare, the best interests of the child always come first. member states should endeavour to protect that interest to the fullest extent possible within their legislation. there is now increased mobility within and outside the eu. there are therefore a number of issues related to the cross-border protection of children. this includes, among other things, the issue of custody, but also the issue of adoption. family law thus has cross-border implications. the european parliament, in its proposal, calls on the member states to play an active role in the protection of children's interests and to adopt a preventive approach to child protection litigation, judicial cooperation within the eu and the role of social services in child protection. i support this motion for a resolution. furthermore, i believe that children and parents exercising their right to freedom of movement have the right to direct contact with each other. the only exception is when it's against the best interests of the child.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to consult the european economic and social committee on the establishment of a european pillar of social rights because it is in line with rule 137 of the rules of procedure and because i believe that the eesc can prepare a high-quality opinion on the subject which will certainly contribute to the process of establishing a pillar of social rights. i believe that the committee's advisory role, representing the interests of a large proportion of european citizens and stakeholders, should not be overlooked.
‒ the economic and social committee is an advisory body of the european union. it provides expert advice to the main eu institutions (the european commission, the european council and the european parliament) by issuing 'opinions' on proposed eu legislative acts, as well as 'own-initiative opinions' on issues it considers needing to be addressed. the committee promotes participatory democracy in the eu and helps to strengthen the role of civil society organisations by engaging in 'structured dialogue' with these groups in the eu member states as well as in other countries around the world. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for consultation of the european economic and social committee, and the president shall initiate the consultation procedure and inform parliament thereof. the committee may request the european economic and social committee to be consulted on general matters or specific points. the committee shall specify the time limit within which it is to deliver its opinion. the request to consult the european economic and social committee shall be approved by parliament without debate and the opinion forwarded by the european economic and social committee shall be referred to the committee responsible. because of the role of the european economic and social committee, i supported this request with the aim of promoting participatory democracy in the european union and strengthening the role of the eu institutions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004, as it regulates important issues concerning the functioning of the era (eu agency for railways). the aim is to improve rail safety and efficiency, to improve economies of scale, to reduce administrative costs, to harmonise national rules, to harmonise regulations at eu level, to avoid disguised discrimination, to establish fairer competition for all rail market participants and ultimately to achieve greater integration of european rail transport.
the european union agency for railways (era) is a public body that provides technical assistance to all member states of the union and reports to the commission on railway safety and interoperability. in addition to setting standards within the union, the era may, in cooperation with third countries, apply rules and standards beyond the union, all within the framework of the railway packages it has set up. the previous three 'railway packages' have contributed to significant changes in the competitiveness and interoperability of european railways, which have also contributed to maintaining a high level of safety. the commission has developed the fourth railway package with the aim of increasing the quality, competitiveness and performance of the railway sector at european union level. the fourth package aims to set better standards and better technical compliance for infrastructure, signalling and other components of the rail system, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i welcome the progress made in the negotiations with the council and the european commission and the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004. i believe that the commission's proposal has a good chance of removing the remaining administrative and technical barriers in the railway sector. the agency can contribute to the further development and efficient functioning of a single european railway without any borders, guaranteeing a high level of safety and interoperability, while improving the competitive position of the railway sector. i also note that the development of national railway regulations should be further monitored in order to support the effective action of national authorities in the field of railway safety and interoperability and to promote the optimisation of the procedures implemented to that end. that is precisely the reason why i voted against the request to withdraw the proposal for a regulation.
written. ‒ i am adopting the act in line with the council's position as i believe that the need to submit multiple applications will be removed, the european union agency for railways will issue all approvals for all vehicles used in cross-border traffic and all safety decisions to railway undertakings providing cross-border rail services. the agency will be able to establish a 'one-stop-shop' for the processing of all requests. this information and communication system will make procedures easier and more transparent. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the safety management system. the commission notes that the agreement between the two railway companies is not binding on the railway undertakings concerned. the administrative costs will be reduced and the procedures will be accelerated, while maintaining the current high level of security. this will at the same time help to prevent disguised discrimination, in particular discrimination against new companies wishing to enter the market. the number of national regulations in the areas where harmonised regulation is introduced at eu level will also be significantly reduced.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004, as it is necessary to adopt universal rules that will increase the safety, competitiveness and transparency of rail services in the union with the ultimate aim of reducing the cost of rail services to citizens. the amendments to directive 2004/49/ec and directive 2008/57/ec, together with the proposal for a regulation on the european union agency for railways, constitute the technical pillar of the fourth railway package. this pillar aims to improve infrastructure, railway vehicles, signalling and other parts of the railway system. the commission will also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget to finance the measures referred to in article 3 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. parliament also tried to clarify the role of the european union agency for railways in order to reduce costs and excessive bureaucracy. after nine months of negotiations between parliament and the council, an agreement was reached. the agreement brings a high level of security, reduced administrative costs, market liberalisation, a reduction in national regulations and the introduction of harmonised regulations at eu level. the new agreement will allow for better communication between national authorities and the european union agency for railways.
‒ the european union agency for railways contributes to the integration of european railway systems by increasing the safety of trains and enabling them to cross national borders without stopping. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the railway package and will continue to monitor the implementation of the railway package. however, obstacles to competition, discrimination, the lack of a liberal and dynamic business-friendly environment and the problem of a large number of different national regulations with non-transparent procedures and standards remain. the commission has therefore developed a fourth railway package aimed at improving the performance and competitiveness of the railway sector and the quality and efficiency of rail services. the new agreement should increase economies of scale for railway undertakings and manufacturers across the eu and reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures, while maintaining a high level of safety. i support this recommendation and consider that cooperation between national authorities and the european union agency for railways is of the utmost importance in order to create an integrated cross-border rail system. a strong and efficient railway agency is a key prerequisite for the development and functioning of the european railway market.
‒ the european commission has developed the fourth railway package with the aim of improving the performance and competitiveness of the railway sector and the quality and efficiency of rail services. the fourth railway package includes an interoperability directive which aims to reduce administrative costs and speed up harmonised administrative procedures, establish a common approach to safety and interoperability rules in order to increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating across the european union. i believe that the new rules will help to prevent hidden discrimination, especially for new companies wishing to enter the market, and that the number of national rules will be reduced as harmonised regulation is introduced at the european union level. that is why i supported this directive.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union (recast), as the directive removes administrative and technical constraints, establishes a common approach to safety and interoperability rules to increase economies of scale, reduces and accelerates administrative costs, and ultimately creates the conditions for convergence towards a single european railway area.
written. ‒ the railway system and the railway market have undergone a major transition in the last few years, which has been realised by the 'railway packages'. the purpose of the 'railway packages' was to increase competitiveness, open up national markets and make railways interoperable at european level. despite efforts and developments, the modal share of rail in transport within the territory of the european union is very modest and stagnating. the implementation of the fourth railway package seeks to increase the efficiency of rail services and to improve the mechanism for removing market barriers in order to realise a single european railway area. the fourth package includes the interoperability directive, which aims to remove all technical and administrative constraints by establishing a common approach to safety and interoperability rules. i supported this report because i believe it will contribute to the development of the railway system and economic growth.
written. ‒ i welcome the progress made in the negotiations with the council and the european commission and the recommendation for a second reading on the council position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union. the commission notes that the amendments to the railway legislation are not intended to remove the existing technical barriers to the railway sector. the amendments to the regulation are intended to define the optimal level of technical harmonisation, to facilitate, improve and develop rail transport services within the union and third countries, to contribute to the establishment of a single european railway area and to contribute to the establishment of an internal market for rail services. this harmonisation of conditions concerns the design, construction, commissioning, development, renewal, operation and maintenance of the parts of that system, but also the harmonisation of the necessary levels of expertise and the conditions for ensuring the necessary levels of occupational health and safety for workers in that sector. in view of the intention to increase the efficiency of the vehicle approval procedure, to promote the recognition of interoperability authorisations in the european union countries and to improve the coherence of national legal frameworks relating to interoperability aspects in the internal market for rail services, i could not support the request for withdrawal of the proposal to amend the directive on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union.
written. ‒ despite the considerable development of the eu's acquis, which has established an internal market for rail services, the modal share of rail in intra-eu transport remains very modest. today, the railway's share of the eu's overall market has stagnated at 6%, and according to eurobarometer data, 54% of users are not satisfied with rail services. this is precisely why an interoperability directive is needed, which aims to remove remaining administrative and technical constraints by establishing a common approach to safety and interoperability rules in order to increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating across the european union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. the system established by the new directive will bring europe closer to a single european railway area. the administrative costs will be reduced and the procedures will be accelerated, while maintaining the existing high level of security. the commission has also concluded that the aid scheme is compatible with the internal market. the commission considers that the aid is necessary to ensure that the infrastructure is in a position to meet the needs of the railway sector.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union, as it takes new steps towards further opening up national markets, greater competitiveness and interoperability of railways at eu level while maintaining a high level of safety. the need for a fourth 'railway package' arose from the stagnation of the rail transport market's share of the eu's overall market at 6%, and from the dissatisfaction of rail users, which according to eurobarometer is as high as 54%. the new directive will contribute to bringing europe closer to the single european railway area, reducing administrative costs, speeding up the process, while maintaining the existing level of safety. the european railway agency and the national safety authorities will conclude cooperation agreements, which will guarantee a clear division of tasks and the establishment of an 'all in one' system. the european railway agency will take over the task of issuing the authorisation within three years of the entry into force of the directive. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
written. ‒ the european union's railway market has undergone major changes over the past decade with the adoption of three 'railway packages' aimed at opening up national markets and increasing the competitiveness and interoperability of railways at eu level, while maintaining high levels of safety. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the free movement of goods. the commission has therefore developed a fourth railway package aimed at improving the performance and competitiveness of the railway sector and the quality and efficiency of rail services by removing remaining market barriers to the creation of a single european railway area. the fourth railway package also includes an interoperability directive, which aims to remove remaining administrative and technical constraints. in view of the above, i support this recommendation. i think it's important to reduce administrative costs and speed up administrative procedures. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union railway safety legislation and the implementation of the union railway safety legislation.
written. ‒ i supported the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union as i believe that this directive will remove the remaining market barriers to the creation of a single european railway area and improve the quality and efficiency of rail services. the system established by the new directive will bring europe closer to a single european railway area. the agency should be able to provide the agency with the necessary information to enable it to assess the safety performance of the railway undertaking and the safety performance of the infrastructure. the commission has also concluded that the scheme is compatible with the internal market on the basis of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety (recast), given that the directive contributes to the establishment of a common regulatory framework for railway safety, all with a view to achieving a single market for railway services. the european railway agency has a special role to play in this respect.
written. ‒ in order to establish a single market for services, it is important to define a regulatory framework specialised in railway safety. the existing rules and standards are largely set at national level, which further complicates the system. the common regulatory framework would be based on the revised directive 2004/49/ec, replacing the existing two-tier system. the european railway agency (era) will have a key role in defining the common regulatory framework and will be empowered to issue safety decisions to railway undertakings. i supported this report which allows for the creation of a common regulatory framework because it will improve the efficiency of the rail system.
written. ‒ i welcome the progress made in the negotiations with the council and the european commission and the recommendation for a second reading on the council position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on railway safety. the commission notes that the amendments to the railway legislation are not intended to remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles in the railway sector. the proposed amendments to the railway safety directive aim to amend the existing regulatory framework in order to establish a single european union safety certificate for railway undertakings and infrastructure managers to be issued by the eu agency for railways. it is equally important to define the roles and responsibilities of the different stakeholders in the rail system in order to ensure adequate risk control at all levels. in the light of the above, i consider that the proposed amendments are a good step towards the establishment of a single european railway area which will contribute to the establishment of an internal market for railway services. the removal of unnecessary administrative barriers will also improve services to rail transport end-users, citizens and the economy. in view of the above, i could not support the request to withdraw the proposal to amend the railway safety directive.
written. ‒ the european parliament, having regard to the council's position at first reading and to rule 76 of its rules of procedure, has accepted the council's position at first reading. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the safety of railway undertakings in the union. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the railway sector, in particular the impact of the measures on the safety of the railway system, the safety of the railway undertakings and the safety of the railway undertakings. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. i welcome the european parliament's decision to accept the council's position on the adoption of a directive on railway safety, as it will improve the policy of providing information to the relatives of victims and the coordination of emergency services.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety as it establishes a common regulatory framework for railway safety which is necessary to continue the establishment of a single market for railway services. directive 2004/49/ec on safety on the community's railways represents a major step towards establishing a common regulatory framework for railway safety. it establishes a framework for harmonising the content of safety regulations, the issuing of safety decisions to railway undertakings, the tasks and role of safety authorities and the conduct of accident investigations with a view to developing uniform rules and standards. the european railway agency (era) will play a key role in the provision of safety solutions to railway undertakings. the safety culture and incident reporting among railway undertakings and infrastructure managers will be improved. the policy on information provision and coordination of services in the event of emergencies will be improved. the era may establish an instrument for the exchange of information on security risks, which will facilitate the cross-border exchange of information in the event of a security risk.
written. ‒ it is necessary to establish a regulatory framework for railway safety with a view to establishing a single market for railway services. member states have developed their safety rules and standards for national railway lines on the basis of national technical and operational approaches, which makes it very difficult to remove technical barriers and to establish international transport. great progress towards establishing a common regulatory framework for railway safety has been made by directive 2004/49/ec on community railway safety, which establishes a framework for harmonising the content of safety rules, the issuing of safety authorisations to railway undertakings, the tasks and role of safety authorities and the conduct of accident investigations. the commission has also concluded that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the main objective of this proposal is therefore to develop and implement a single european union safety decision-making system in which the european railway agency (era) would play a key role. i support the proposal for a railway safety directive and consider that the establishment of a common regulatory framework for railway safety is essential to improve communication and exchange of information on safety risks with a view to establishing a single market for rail transport services, which is in the interest of all member states of the european union.
written. ‒ the railway safety directive has made great progress towards establishing a common regulatory framework for railway safety and has established a framework for harmonising the content of safety regulations, the issuing of safety decisions to railway undertakings, the tasks and role of safety authorities and the conduct of accident investigations. the issuing of security clearances is still carried out at national level while the revision of this directive aims to move towards a single union system for issuing security clearances which would replace the existing two-part system. however, i believe that safety rules and standards must remain at least partly the responsibility of the member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts, given that the pricing of many financial instruments and financial contracts depends on the accuracy and correctness of the benchmarks used. unfortunately, manipulations of libor and benchmarks in the foreign exchange markets, as well as alleged manipulations of various other indices, have shown that there is a major problem and vulnerability in the use of benchmarks. in this regard, the eu should establish clear rules, measures, criteria, standards, liability and sanctions in case of irregularities in that financial area. in this respect, i support the involvement of the european parliament in the legislative process, which should contribute to greater transparency, reduce the scope for fraud, increase accountability, strengthen confidence in the institutions, contribute to strengthening a level playing field and contribute to the stability of the financial system. the legislative procedure should strengthen the management system and standards for the relevant benchmarks, reduce their vulnerability and exposure to manipulation, and then increase transparency through greater availability of information to benchmark users and contribute to better consumer and investor protection. the new regulation ensures the accuracy, consistency and completeness of the benchmark.
written. ‒ following the discovery of libor benchmark manipulation, the eu introduced changes to the market abuse directive to protect against the manipulation of indices as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. the report notes that the current changes are not sufficient and highlights the need for further strengthening in three other areas. the report calls for strengthening public administration and its market influence, transparency and efficiency towards end-users and aligning market demands with those of states. the report proposes to provide additional measures to safeguard benchmarks and regulate their application, ensure the stability of benchmarks and their transparency. the integrity of benchmarks is crucial for determining market prices and financial instruments such as loans, credits, legal contracts and interest rates. that's why i supported the report.
written. ‒ i consider that a regulation is needed to establish a legislative framework at union level for indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts, mainly to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection. it is important to include all benchmarks used to price financial instruments or consumer contracts and to measure the performance of investment funds. ensuring the accuracy and correctness of the indices is a key requirement that this regulation seeks to ensure and i support the four main objectives for improving the framework in which benchmarks are established. the impact on the union budget should not be a stumbling block to the adoption of the regulation and i believe that the benefits of a stricter management of the key benchmarks and the controls on their establishment will far outweigh the costs incurred in doing so. the cases of manipulation of reference interest rates, such as libor and euribor, and alleged manipulation of reference values in the energy and foreign exchange sectors call in particular for the adoption of this regulation and i have therefore supported its adoption and this report.
the european parliament, taking into account the commission proposal addressed to the european parliament and the council, adopted a position establishing a common framework for ensuring the accuracy and correctness of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts in the union. this regulation thus contributes to the proper functioning of the internal market while achieving a high level of consumer and investor protection. it is important to emphasise that each member state designates a competent authority responsible for administrators and supervised entities contributing to the establishment to carry out the tasks arising from this regulation and informs the commission and esma thereof. i welcome the decision of the european parliament to adopt a position introducing a common framework for ensuring the accuracy and correctness of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts in the union.
written. ‒ i voted against this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the manipulation of libor and euribor interest rates and foreign exchange benchmarks, as well as alleged manipulation of other indices, have highlighted the importance of benchmarks and their sensitivity. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the benchmarking exercise on the benchmark benchmark benchmark. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. in response to those publications, the european union has supplemented the existing proposal for a market abuse regulation (mar) by clarifying that the manipulation of benchmarks is illegal and subject to criminal sanctions. however, this does not remove the risk of manipulation resulting from inappropriate management of the benchmarking process. i therefore welcome the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council which aims to improve the governance and control of the benchmarking process. i would stress that it is of the utmost importance to ensure and improve the functioning of the internal market and thus to guarantee a high level of consumer and investor protection and to increase transparency for the sake of financial market stability.
written. ‒ reference interbank interest rates, such as libor (the daily rate at which banks offer money to each other for borrowing on the london interbank market) and euribor (the reference interest rate set on the european interbank market for the euro) are crucial for market monitoring. the link between those rates and a number of financial transactions affects the profits and losses of investors in financial products and their manipulation can cause significant harm to market confidence, consumers, investors and the real economy. it is therefore necessary to lay down clear rules for the introduction of transparency into the rates used in the european union. furthermore, it is necessary that benchmarks in one member state can be applied in other member states because the harmonised framework reduces differences in the legislation of member states that may create obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market for the provision of benchmarks. in the light of the above, i support this report as i believe that a stricter regime is needed for systemically important benchmark rates such as euribor and libor.
written. ‒ in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to improve the conditions for its functioning, in particular as regards financial markets, and to guarantee a high level of consumer and investor protection, it is necessary to establish a regulatory framework for benchmarks. the financial industry relies on benchmarks to assess the performance of an investment fund in order to monitor returns, determine the allocation of portfolio assets or calculate performance fees. i supported this report because implementation fully respects the independence of the european central bank, but also the independence of the national central banks, which is enshrined in the constitutional structures of the member state or third country concerned.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part iii. commission and executive agencies because i consider that the main principles of the multiannual financial framework have finally been respected and that the errors found are not so serious as to justify the refusal to grant discharge. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any evidence that the union industry would be able to benefit from the measures. accordingly, long-term cash flow projections and a strategy that is balanced and aligned with real needs and key eu policies are needed. i believe that the budget's main objective is to benefit citizens and therefore i support this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting documentation. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 and the discharge report to the executive agencies.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' finding shows that the 2014 annual budget for the union is legally sound in all material respects. as stated in the report, i consider it necessary that the commission, before the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, sends to parliament proposals on how to overcome the newly emerging and potential challenges that require parliament's budgetary support. i regret that the overall error rate has remained almost the same as last year and that payment errors have been recorded again. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2014/2015. it should also be borne in mind that significant corrective measures have been implemented. i am also concerned that some of the recommendations and requirements set out in the 2013 commission discharge have not yet been implemented and i hope that further work by the commission will make progress in this area as well. i therefore supported the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part iii commission and executive agencies.
written. ‒ i am pleased that the commission has been able to meet most of the targets in line with the key performance indicators. in view of the report of the european court of auditors and in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control as a member of the committee on foreign affairs, i agree with the opinion of the committee and support the report on the achievements of the commission and the executive agencies, but also on the issues that need further work - primarily on the issue of reducing the percentage of material errors in the operations of the commission and the executive agencies. i support all the recommendations made by the european court of auditors in the annual reports and call on the commission to act expeditiously on the recommendations of previous years that have not yet been fully implemented in the work of the commission and the executive agencies. finally, i would like to reiterate my view that i hope that in future the commission's policy will include more social and employment policy in addition to market and monetary policy in response to current and future challenges.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the european commission implements the budget and manages eu programmes. in order to ensure greater transparency, the commission shall implement the budget under its own responsibility, in cooperation with the member states, and shall respect the rules of sound financial management. it should be emphasised that only the commission's budget contains administrative and operational resources, whereas the other eu institutions contain only administrative resources. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the discharge helps to understand the functioning of the eu budget mechanisms and how the budget was implemented in 2014, including the expenditure of the eu institutions. i consider the document to be essential for the protection of the eu budget and therefore for the functioning of the european union system.
written. ‒ the european commission implements the budget and manages eu programmes. in order to ensure greater transparency, the commission shall implement the budget under its own responsibility, in cooperation with the member states, and shall respect the rules of sound financial management. it should be emphasised that only the commission's budget contains administrative and operational resources, whereas the other eu institutions contain only administrative resources. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the discharge helps to understand the functioning of the eu budget mechanisms and how the budget was implemented in 2014, including the expenditure of the eu institutions. i consider the document to be essential for the protection of the eu budget and therefore for the functioning of the european union system.
written. ‒ i voted against the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part iii. - commission and executive agencies, because of the large increase in the rate of material error reported by the european court of auditors in its annual report for the financial year 2014. i believe that the commission must urgently take appropriate measures in line with the recommendations of the past years which have not yet been fully implemented. i am concerned by the fact that of the 178 transactions examined by the court in the field of employment policy and social affairs, 62 (34.8%) were found to be in error, of which 12 errors were related to measurable errors above 20%. the commission must implement corrective measures and apply strict procedures to reduce the risk of irregularities in this policy area and measures must be taken in relation to unacceptable expenditure identified by the court.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the court of auditors' thematic reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2014 because this report is realistic and describes the current situation in concrete terms. moreover, such an attitude is in line with the line of the alde club. the court noted high error rates, although it can be seen that this trend has been declining in recent years. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the budget, including on the budgetary impact of the measures taken. in this context, it is necessary, for example, to use simplified cost statements.
written. ‒ the court's thematic reports give the european parliament a clear and complete picture of the european commission's work and the implementation of the eu budget. i believe that the reports provide insight into irregularities and problems that arise in the implementation of the budget. the commission should be able to make use of the information provided by the member states in order to assess the effectiveness of the union's budget. for the reasons set out above, i have supported the court of auditors' thematic reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2014.
‒ the court of auditors' thematic reports contain information on the use of the funds and as such form an integral part of parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. having regard to the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, the consolidated annual accounts of the union for the financial year 2014, the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, together with the institutions' replies and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i have endorsed this report on the court of auditors' thematic reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2014, welcoming the conclusions of the court of auditors' separate thematic reports and taking into account all the observations made in those reports.
written. ‒ i support the fact that the commission accepts the court of auditors' recommendations and has expressed its intention to work with the member states to improve the control of rural development costs in the 2014-2020 programming period. i agree with the court's report and call on the commission to find additional sources of funding for the 'youth guarantee' initiative, which is an important tool in the fight against high youth unemployment. i welcome the more stable legal arrangement offered under the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with third countries, which should ensure that union fishing activities in third country waters are based on the best available scientific advice and the exchange of relevant information, ensuring the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and transparency in the determination of surpluses.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the court of auditors submits thematic reports to the european parliament to give a comprehensive picture of the european commission's activities and the implementation of the eu budget. this helps to improve efficiency and avoid budget implementation problems. the court of auditors also publishes opinions on draft laws and ad hoc publications on eu public finances, with a focus on the management of the european union's finances. i support the court of auditors' report on the thematic reports on discharge to the commission for the year 2014. thematic reports cover a wide range of topics on eu funds, programmes and policies. given its independence from the institutions in which it conducts its audit, the court is very important for the transparency of the system and the trust of eu citizens in the eu institutions.
written. ‒ the court of auditors submits thematic reports to the european parliament to give a comprehensive picture of the european commission's activities and the implementation of the eu budget. this helps to improve efficiency and avoid budget implementation problems. in addition to the reports, the court of auditors publishes opinions on draft laws and ad hoc publications on eu public finances, with a focus on the management of the european union's finances. i support the court of auditors' report on the thematic reports on discharge to the commission for the year 2014. thematic reports cover a wide range of topics on eu funds, programmes and policies. given its independence from the institutions in which it conducts its audit, the court is very important for the transparency of the system and the trust of eu citizens in the eu institutions.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' thematic reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2014 comprise 21 special reports. these reports contain information on important issues concerning the use of funds and are therefore useful to parliament in its role as discharge authority. i would express my concern at the lack of reliability of europeaid's system for outcome-based evaluation and monitoring, the inadequate level of monitoring and follow-up of programme evaluation and the fact that europeaid cannot guarantee that human and financial resources are adequately and effectively allocated to the various evaluation-related activities. although this report is positive in some respects, there are certain passages i cannot support and i have abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014 because i consider it extremely important to grant discharge in order to continue the work and activities started without interruption. it is necessary that the financial management of the fund complies with the principles of transparency, consistency and balance. the union's objectives and the strategic needs of long-term development must certainly be taken into account. however, it is necessary to strengthen the supervision of operations and management guarantees and to improve the supervision of mutual funds and merger instruments in the union. it is also necessary to strengthen cooperation with other international institutions and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the european development fund is used to provide financial assistance for the development and strengthening of cooperation with acp (africa, caribbean, pacific) countries and other overseas countries and territories. it contains a series of instruments that he uses. some of them are grants, private sector lending, venture capital and so on. the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 confirmed that there were no accounting irregularities. i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014.
the court of auditors confirms the low level of commitment during 2014 of eur 621 million compared to the previous two years of eur 3 923 million (2013) and eur 3 163 million (2012), which is linked to the late entry into force of the 11th edf and the limited transitional resources available under the bridging framework of eur 1 616 million. concern was expressed that the estimated error rate of edf expenditure has increased for three consecutive years according to the court of auditors, but that error rate is still significantly lower than the error rate of eu expenditure managed by member states. in the opinion of the court of auditors, the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the edf as at 31 december 2014 and i therefore support this discharge. i believe that policy coordination in the interest of development would prevent and anticipate adverse effects and that policy coherence assessment should become a regular part of the preparation, monitoring, reporting, evaluation and audit of expenditure in all relevant policy areas, including trade, agriculture and fisheries policy.
written. ‒ the cotonou agreement sets as a central objective in the union's relations with third countries the reduction and ultimate eradication of poverty in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of developing countries into the world economy. the european development funds are the main financial instrument of the union for providing development cooperation to those countries, and their transparency and effectiveness in funding are of paramount importance. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the implementation of the budget. finally, i would welcome the objectives and successes of the european development funds and hope that they will continue to be generously funded, since poverty eradication is one of the union's fundamental missions.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the european development fund (edf) is the main instrument for the provision of joint assistance by the european union to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states and to the overseas countries and territories. it is important to emphasise that the erf is not financed from the eu budget, but from the budgets of the member states of the european union, and is managed by a joint force of the european investment bank and the european commission. the erf is a very important institution for reducing poverty and strengthening the economy in assisted countries. this is very important for the stability of the acp region, which is also important for the stability and security of the european union and its citizens.
written. ‒ the european development fund (edf) is the main instrument for the provision of joint assistance by the european union to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states and to the overseas countries and territories. it is important to emphasise that the erf is not financed from the eu budget, but from the budgets of the member states of the european union, and is managed by a joint force of the european investment bank and the european commission. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. the erf is a very important institution for poverty reduction and economic strengthening in assisted countries. this is very important for the stability of the acp region, which is also important for the stability and security of the european union and its citizens.
written. ‒ i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014, as the new financial instruments are not in line with the general objectives of the union's development policy, even though they should be targeted on areas where the added value and strategic impact are greatest. i believe that a reliable, transparent and accountable framework should be established to ensure compliance with the principles of development effectiveness and development objectives in all merger programmes and thus provide additional guarantees for development. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part i. european parliament because i consider that the report is in line with the state of play, although there are deficiencies and errors which are not negligible. budgetary and financial management should be based, above all, on transparency, consistency and balance. in this context, a long-term strategy based on the union's key objectives is of strategic importance in order to meet the priorities set. i consider that the granting of the discharge allows the work to continue unhindered and therefore i support this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors concluded in its report that the audit carried out did not reveal any deficiencies in the european parliament's administrative expenditure system. i believe that the economical use of taxpayers' money strengthens confidence in the european parliament as an institution that represents the interests of the citizens of the european union. on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the european parliament for 2014, i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ in its certification of the final accounts for 2014, the court of auditors gave reasonable assurance that the accounts present a true and fair view of parliament's financial position in all material respects and that it was not aware of any issues of contention which would call for restraint. the court of auditors concluded that the audit did not reveal any material deficiencies in the systems selected and in the annual reports on the work of its institutions and bodies. the final appropriations for parliament for 2014 were found to total eur 1 755 631 742, representing an increase of 0,3% compared to the 2013 budget. the court of auditors' report of 11 july 2014 indicated that the potential savings for the union budget would be around eur 114 million per year if parliament centralised its activities and invited parliament and the council to take into account the drawing up of a single seat plan in order to achieve long-term savings. on the basis of the above, i have supported the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, in the part concerning the european parliament, and i welcome the court's invitation to consider a single seat for parliament, which would make a significant contribution to savings and reduce administrative costs.
written. ‒ i am pleased that the court of auditors has found that the control and supervision systems for administrative expenditure are largely in line with the requirements of financial regulation and that the most common error rate in transactions is 0.5%, indicating good and accurate financial management, especially as i believe that the european parliament, as a democratically elected body directly by the citizens of the european union, should set a good example for all other institutions in terms of how responsible and quality financing can be implemented. that is why i support the proposal that in all areas where there is any lack of transparency, it should be corrected. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the public procurement rules are not uniform across the union, and that the public procurement rules are not uniform across the union.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the european parliament is the legislative institution of the european union and is the only directly elected institution within the eu system as a whole. due to its responsibility to citizens, the supervision of public finances is essential to ensure that parliament's political leadership and administration operate at a high level. the court of auditors monitors and improves the budget available to the ep. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part i. i believe that the european parliament should be responsible for the use of the budget and should be guided by the principle of transparency and efficiency in its implementation. as a directly elected institution, the european parliament has the duty to protect the interests of the citizens who elected it, while ensuring that all their rights are guaranteed and secured.
written. ‒ the european parliament is an important legislative institution of the european union and is the only directly elected institution within the eu system as a whole. due to its responsibility to citizens, the supervision of public finances is essential to ensure that parliament's political leadership and administration operate at a high level. the court of auditors monitors and improves the budget available to the ep. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part i. i believe that the european parliament must be accountable in the use of the budget and must be guided by the principle of transparency and efficiency in its implementation. as a directly elected institution, the european parliament has an obligation to protect the citizens who elected it, and to ensure that all their rights are guaranteed and secured.
written. ‒ the court of auditors carries out a separate assessment of administrative and other expenditure within a single policy group for all the union institutions, including the european parliament. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i did not support this report as i believe that there is still a lot of room for improvement in the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of public finance management and that more scrutiny is needed to ensure that the political leadership and administration of parliament are accountable to the citizens of the union. i believe that it is possible to achieve greater transparency in the remuneration of general expenses of members, the adoption of concrete plans and estimates of costs for renovation work, recruitment and for strengthening the information security system.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part ii. european council and council as it delays the decision on the discharge to the secretary-general of the council. i believe that the principle of sound financial management needs to be more strongly implemented and the process of transferring funds within budget lines needs to be improved. the level of transparency and democratic accountability and the level of cooperation between the eu institutions also need to be increased. in addition, the possibility of separating the budgets of the european council and the council needs to be analysed and examined in detail.
written. ‒ given the lack of answers to some key questions raised by parliament, it was not possible to take a discharge decision. for the reasons set out above, i supported the report by mr czarnecki and the european parliament resolution concerning the deferral of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported the postponement of the vote on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. i support the view already expressed earlier that the council should demonstrate greater transparency and accountability to the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to it by participating fully and in good faith in the annual reporting on the expenditure of the eu budget, just like the other eu institutions. the european council and the council had a total budget of eur 534 200 000 in 2013 with an implementation rate of 91,3%, which is sufficient to make its work transparent to the citizens whom the european parliament directly represents and whose interests it protects. i believe that only full transparency can have an impact on raising citizens' trust in the eu and its institutions, especially in a turbulent time in which we live exposed to various crises, both major and minor, which citizens in every corner of the union feel on their own skin.
written. ‒ i support the decision of the european parliament to postpone the discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. i would note that parliament also refused to give a discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. i consider that all union institutions should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union with regard to the funds entrusted to them as union institutions and i also reiterate the opinion that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of the financial management of the institutions and to improve the accountability of both institutions. the european parliament considers that effective budgetary control can only be exercised through cooperation between parliament and the council and reiterates that without the cooperation of the council in the form referred to above it is not in a position to take a discharge decision on the basis of an understanding of the facts.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the council's budget is part of the general budget of the european union. the european parliament shall have exclusive power to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. parliament cannot adopt a discharge decision without all the necessary documents and the commission, at the ep's request, must provide all the necessary information on expenditure or the functioning of the financial control system. for a representative democracy to work properly, there has to be a well-designed discharge system. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part ii. european council and council. i believe that oversight of public service accounts and transparency are essential principles of democracy. the european council and the council should adhere to those principles in order to improve communication between them and to increase the efficiency of the overall system.
written. ‒ the council's budget is part of the general budget of the european union. the european parliament shall have exclusive power to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. parliament cannot adopt a discharge decision without all the necessary documents and the commission, at the ep's request, must provide all the necessary information on expenditure or the functioning of the financial control system. for a representative democracy to work properly, there has to be a well-designed discharge system. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part ii. european council and council. i believe that the oversight of public service accounts and transparency are essential principles of democracy that the european union must also adhere to. the european council and the council must both adhere to these principles in order to improve communication between them and to increase the efficiency of the overall system.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part ii. european council and council as this proposal postpones the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. i believe that without the necessary information parliament is not in a position to take a reasoned discharge decision, but also that the european council and the council need to improve the management of the deficiencies identified and to correct the errors identified by the court of auditors. better budget planning would avoid significant transfers of funds within budget lines by the council and i believe that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of financial management in the institutions and to improve accountability on both sides. i would also point out that the council has not yet adopted a code of conduct which is necessary for the transparency, accountability and integrity of the institutions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part iv. - the court as it gives discharge to the registrar of the court. the budget implementation rate of 99% clearly indicates that the budget is well planned and that financial management is correctly implemented. the closure of 719 cases certainly confirms the efficiency of the court's functioning, although i believe that it is necessary to further improve the use of existing resources and to encourage the application of new technologies. the external activities of judges should also be made publicly available in order to increase transparency. i certainly support this motion which allows the court to continue its work unhindered.
written. ‒ the court of justice of the european union has the task of promoting the application of uniform law in all member states and of actively settling legal disputes between the institutions of the union and the national governments of the member states. the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the accounting documentation and no significant weakness or shortfall was observed for issues related to public procurement and human resources, therefore i supported the report on the discharge for the general budget of the court of justice.
written. ‒ the court's appropriations for 2014 amounted to eur 355 367 500 and the budget implementation rate was 99%. i welcome the increase in the budget implementation rate in 2014 compared to its level of 96,3% in 2013. the court of auditors concluded in its 2014 annual report that no material shortcomings had been identified in the areas audited, namely the management of human resources and procurement for the court of justice of the european union. as in croatia, the issue of a reasonable time limit for the handling of cases is one of the key factors of the rule of law, so the success of the court's work should be considered from this point of view as well. the court achieved a positive statistical result, having closed 719 cases in 2014, compared to 701 cases closed in 2013. i welcome the positive results and believe that despite the good indicators, there is still room for improvement. in view of the regular findings of the audit, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, in so far as it relates to the court of justice of the european union.
written. ‒ the court of justice of the european union interprets eu law to ensure that it is applied uniformly in all member states. the european parliament is the main institution of the european union. the european parliament has decided to grant the registrar of the court of justice of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2014, and i hereby support that decision. the court of justice of the european union has been the principal forum for the exchange of information and experience between the member states on the legal and judicial aspects of the union's relations with third countries. i note that the court closed 719 cases in 2014 (701 closed in 2013) and that 622 new cases were brought before it (699 in 2013). i support this positive statistical result and believe that it can be improved. i note that the general court had 912 new cases, 814 cases pending and 1423 pending cases, which, in total, represents an increase in the number of cases compared to 2012 and 2013. i note that the creation of nine temporary posts of registrar at the general court in 2014 has strengthened the judicial team of that court and increased its efficiency and success rate, and i call on the court to continue to improve its work and to continue to increase the number of proceedings.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the budget of the court of justice of the european union is entirely administrative in nature and 75% of the expenditure is related to the court's staff. the productivity of the court and its 3 chambers is also high, with 1691 cases brought before the court and 1685 cases closed in 2014. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part iv. the court of justice has also been called upon to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the new rules of procedure. i also believe that the current reform of the general court will simplify the court's judicial system.
written. ‒ the budget of the court of justice of the european union is entirely administrative in nature and 75% of the expenditure is related to the court's staff. the productivity of the court and its 3 chambers is also high, with 1691 cases brought before the court and 1685 cases closed in 2014. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part iv. the court of justice has also been called upon to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the new rules of procedure. i also believe that the current reform of the general court will simplify the court's judicial system.
written. ‒ the court's budget is entirely administrative in nature, with more than 75% of it relating to expenditure relating to the staff of the institution, while the remainder is earmarked for buildings, furniture, equipment and other expenditure. the tribunal has been less effective in its judicial activities overall, closing 152 cases in 2014 compared to 184 the previous year. i believe that the court should improve the use of existing resources and that the internal reforms, which were implemented in 2014, should improve the development of it applications in order to improve procedures and better communication. i would also point out that the court of justice of the european union should reduce the cost of private driver services because the enormous cost of private drivers is borne by the taxpayers of the european union. i would stress the importance of making all information on the external activities of judges publicly available, but also of publishing this information on the website of the court of justice of the european union and of including it in its annual activity report. given all the errors and omissions mentioned, i did not support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part v. - court of auditors because it gives the secretary of the court of auditors a discharge and allows the smooth continuation of the work of this institution. i consider that the activities carried out by the court of auditors, which are aimed at a more efficient and prudent use of european funds, contribute to the union's policies in the field of financial management. i support the proposal to reform the system of audit boards and to allocate more resources to performance audits. i also support reducing translation costs and training activities for auditors and therefore support this proposal.
‒ the court of auditors is a special institution of the european union responsible for auditing revenue and expenditure for financial periods. in order to make better use of the money of the citizens of the union, the court of auditors has the right to audit any organisation or person who has public money at his disposal. the court of auditors has also provided the court of auditors with a number of reports on the implementation of the budget.
the court of auditors has also reviewed the accounts of the european investment bank for the financial year 2014 and the financial year 2014 and the accounts of the european investment bank for the financial year 2014 (the 'annual accounts'). the opinion of the auditors states that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european court of auditors. the report indicates that the final level of appropriations authorised by the court of auditors in 2014 totalled eur 133 498 000 (eur 142 761 000 in 2013) and that the overall budget implementation rate was 98,8%. the auditors also noted that the commission had not provided any information on the implementation of the budget for 2014 and that the commission had not provided any information on the implementation of the budget for 2014. the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 was published in the official journal of the european union on 29 november 2014. the court of auditors' audit findings are sound, and i have therefore supported the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section v.
written. ‒ the court of auditors, as the control institution of the european union, is responsible for checking the revenue and expenditure, the legality and regularity, and the regularity of all transactions of all bodies set up by the community, unless excluded by a constitutional act, and its important role is reflected in the fact that the court of auditors is the fifth basic institution of the european union. i am pleased that the court of auditors has received an assessment from an independent external auditor that 'the financial statements present a true and fair view of the financial position of the european court of auditors'. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the implementation of the budget. i'm glad there's been an increase in execution rates with a reduced budget. i welcome the court of auditors' reform project launched at the end of 2014 which seeks to simplify the audit procedure and reform the court's work organisation to adapt it to its tasks and to increase the workload of the staff. i call on the court of auditors to inform the discharge authority of the objectives and effects of this reform.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european court of auditors acts as the independent external auditor of the european union and checks the collection and use of eu funds. in order to apply the principle of democracy and transparency to the whole system, the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by pricewaterhousecoopers sarl, which is an independent external auditor. the court's budget is purely administrative and the largest amounts of the budget are allocated to the staff of that institution. i hereby approve the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part v. court of auditors. i believe that the court of auditors is important in making the eu's resources more efficient and more thoughtful, and therefore has a very important role in building the trust of eu citizens in the institutions and democratic system of the european union.
‒ the european court of auditors acts as the independent external auditor of the european union and checks the collection and use of eu funds. in order to apply the principle of democracy and transparency to the whole system, the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by pricewaterhousecoopers sarl, which is an independent external auditor. the court's budget is purely administrative and the largest amounts of the budget are allocated to the staff of that institution. i hereby approve the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part v. court of auditors. i believe that the court of auditors is very important in making the eu's resources more efficient and more thoughtful, and therefore has a very important role in building the trust of eu citizens in the institutions and the democratic system of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted against this report as the new audit approach, which includes private sector auditors, increased the administrative burden of decentralised agencies, leading to an increase in administrative burden of 85%, i.e. the total expenditure incurred by the private sector for 2014 increased to eur 550 000. the report also states that the time needed to prepare the report has decreased since 2008, but criticizes that the 18 month target has not yet been reached. i would stress that the objectives must be realistic so as not to impair the quality of the report. i would also like to emphasise that the recommendations in thematic reports are often vague and i believe that they should consistently refer to appropriate and inappropriate actions of the states concerned.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part vi. - european economic and social committee because the financial management has proved to be balanced and in line with the objectives of this institution. in this context, there were no major errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure and i certainly welcome the increase in the number of legal opinions. however, i believe that cooperation with the committee of the regions and the european parliament should be strengthened and communication and information policy improved.
written. ‒ the european economic and social committee has an advisory role, established in 1957, and serves as a forum for debate on the single market where european stakeholders can formally express their views on proposals for union legislation. the eesc's main task is to reduce and eliminate the gap between the european institutions and organised civil society. the court of auditors concluded that the payments for administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 were free from material error. on the basis of the above, i supported the report and the resolution of the european parliament which approved the implementation of the budget of the economic and social committee.
‒ the economic and social committee is an advisory body of the european union. it provides expert advice to the main eu institutions (the european commission, the european council and the european parliament). it does this by issuing 'opinions' on proposed eu legislative acts, as well as 'own-initiative opinions' on issues it considers needing to be addressed. the committee promotes participatory democracy in the eu and helps to strengthen the role of civil society organisations by engaging in 'structured dialogue' with these groups in the eu member states as well as in other countries around the world. the financial report submitted shows that the rate of implementation of the appropriations is 95,6%. the commission notes that the 2014 budget is based on the budgetary forecasts for the period 2014-2020 and that the budgetary forecasts for the period 2014-2020 are based on the budgetary forecasts for the period 2014-2020. i supported the 2014 financial regulation because i consider the work of the committee necessary and useful for the development of the european union and the broad participation of all citizens. the members of the economic and social committee represent a wide range of economic, social and cultural interests in their countries. they are divided into three groups: employers, workers and various stakeholders (e.g. farmers, consumers, environmental associations, family associations, ngos, etc.). their opinion contributes to better communication and acts as a bridge between the eu and civil society organisations in the member states.
written. ‒ the european economic and social committee is one of the oldest bodies of the european union, established in 1957 by the treaty of rome. its advisory role is of particular importance in the work of the union as they constitute an instrument for communication between the public, private and civil sectors and their mutual consultation in the legislative process. i am concerned that in the 2014 annual report the court of auditors made observations to the european economic and social committee (eesc) on shortcomings in four of the 15 public procurement procedures examined. on the other hand, i welcome the fact that the eesc, in response to the court's observations, has launched a service aimed at providing support for public procurement to assist administrations, except for the logistics directorate which already has such a service. this demonstrated how the eu institutions should act when other institutions, ngos or citizens point out a mistake in their work. i welcome the eesc's work on its mistakes and its efforts to improve its work.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission. a large proportion of the eesc's expenditure is spent on staff costs and only a small proportion is used for other operational expenditure. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part vi. european economic and social committee. i believe that cooperation between institutions is very important in order to improve communication and efficiency and to increase the presence of members of these institutions at national level. the acceleration of the flow of information between the eu institutions contributes to the transparency of the whole process of democracy.
the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. a large proportion of the eesc's expenditure is spent on staff costs and only a small proportion is used for other operational expenditure. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part vi. european economic and social committee. i believe that cooperation between institutions is very important in order to improve communication and efficiency and to increase the presence of members of these institutions at national level. the acceleration of the flow of information between the eu institutions contributes to the transparency of the whole process of democracy.
written. ‒ the budget of the european economic and social committee is entirely administrative in nature and a large part is used for expenditure relating to the persons working for the institution, with the remainder used for buildings, furniture, equipment and other dedicated operating expenditure. i did not support this motion for a resolution because i believe that improvements are possible within the framework of the agreement, especially in the political field, and i believe that the three institutions are capable of developing further synergies that will increase productivity at all levels in the areas of cooperation. i also believe that the eesc needs to improve its communication and information policy and its presence in the media.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part vii. - committee of the regions because i consider it important to give the discharge to the secretary-general of the committee so that the committee itself can continue its work without interruption. the budgetary and financial management has proven to be sustainable and in line with the principles of sound planning and balance. however, i believe that the property management policy should be more clearly defined to avoid exceeding the established spending limits. it is also necessary to strengthen cooperation with the other eu institutions and to improve financial flows and control systems. the committee of the regions has a long-standing tradition of providing a platform for the exchange of information and best practices in the field of regional development.
written. ‒ the committee of the regions has an advisory role representing local and regional authorities in the european union. their essential task is to express local and regional views on commission proposals relating to union legislation and to adopt resolutions on current political issues on the basis of these views. the commission, the council and the parliament are obliged to consult the committee of the regions before taking decisions on matters relating to local and regional government. i supported the report of ms macovei on the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 and the european parliament's resolution with observations.
written. the court of auditors concluded in its 2014 annual report that no deficiencies had been identified with regard to the matters audited relating to human resources and procurement procedures within the committee of the regions. the court of auditors concluded on the basis of its audit work that the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies as a whole for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the court of auditors regretted the decrease in the utilisation rate in 2014 compared to its level of 97% in 2013. notes with concern that the court of auditors' audit findings on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2012 were based on the information provided by the court of auditors; in view of the reasonable explanation of the deficiencies identified, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part vii. committee of the regions.
written. ‒ the treaty on european union established the committee of the regions as an assembly of regional authorities in the member states to respond to requests for direct influence on the decision-making of the union concerning local or regional interests, and of the 350 members of the committee, croatia participates with nine. i believe that there is still room for improvement in the cooperation between parliament and the committee on the basis of a cooperation agreement, particularly in the political field. calls on the commission to provide the european parliament with the necessary information to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the european parliament's work in the areas covered by the cooperation agreement; although it is neither an executive nor a legislative body, the functioning of the committee of the regions is of paramount political importance and i therefore welcome and fully support its work.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the committee of the regions is made up of local and regional representatives from all the member states and has an advisory role. the committee of the regions is an effective eu institution and uses a small percentage of the eu budget. the committee of the regions' utilisation rate for 2014 increased compared to 2013. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part vii. committee of the regions. i believe that cooperation and good communication between the european parliament and the committee of the regions is crucial to improving the productivity of the institutions. it is important that the committee of the regions continue to make progress in the information and communication policy.
written. ‒ the committee of the regions is made up of local and regional representatives from all the member states and has an advisory role. given its importance, the committee of the regions is a very effective eu institution and uses a very small percentage of the budget of the entire european union. the committee of the regions' utilisation rate for 2014 increased compared to 2013. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part vii. committee of the regions. i believe that cooperation and good communication between the european parliament and the committee of the regions is crucial to improving the productivity of the institutions. it is essential that the committee of the regions continue to make progress in the information and communication policy.
written. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution with observations of the european parliament, which forms an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 - committee of the regions. i consider that the risks identified during the audits and risk analyses carried out, in particular in the area of financial management and operational issues, must be addressed without delay and that the committee's property management policy should be attached to the annual activity report with a special focus on policy costs that should be kept within reasonable limits.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part x. - european external action service as it gives discharge to the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. the european external action service (eeas) has not been found to have any major deficiencies and the level of administrative error is 5%. however, i believe that the inflexibility and complexity of the current budgetary mechanisms should be reduced and synergies between union delegations and member states' embassies abroad should be strengthened, and evaluations of eu delegations should be improved. i certainly agree that there is a need to improve cooperation between member states in the field of foreign and security policy and to achieve a comprehensive strategy, and i therefore support this proposal.
written. ‒ the european external action service was established as a diplomatic service of the european union. the european service's role is to make the eu's external policy as effective as possible and thus increase the european union's influence vis-à-vis third countries. on the basis of the court of auditors' decision on the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2014, it was decided to authorise the implementation of the budget of the european external action service, and i therefore supported that decision.
written. ‒ the financial report showed that the final budget of the european external action service (eeas) for the financial year 2014 was eur 518,6 million, representing an increase of 1,9% compared to 2013. in addition to the eeas's own budget, the commission increased the staff management fee by eur 271 million. the eeas is the diplomatic corps of the european union. the eusr shall support the eusr in the implementation of the eu's foreign and security policy. the eeas shall manage the eu's diplomatic relations with other countries outside the union. it aims to make the eu's foreign policy more coherent and effective, and thus increase its influence in the world. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the agency's annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the findings also showed that no deficiencies were found with regard to the issues audited. in view of the regular findings of the audit, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, in so far as it relates to the european external action service.
written. ‒ the aim of the european external action service is to assist the high representative in ensuring the consistency and coherence of the union's external action. the service also assists the president of the european council and the president and members of the commission in their respective external relations functions and ensures close cooperation with the member states. i agree that it is important to tackle the imbalances in the gender and nationality profile of the eeas. i welcome the current efforts and the current progress in solving the problem, but i believe that more can be done on this issue. i note with regret that the eeas still lacks an overarching strategy and vision which prevents the institution from responding expeditiously to unexpected events. i call on the eeas to clarify its vision for the future. i also call on the eeas to develop expertise in the areas of global warming and energy security.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the european external action service conducts the european union's diplomacy with non-member states and deals with the eu's foreign and security policy. it creates and maintains strategic partnerships around the world and cooperates with the national diplomatic missions of the member states of various organisations. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part x. european external action service. i consider the european external action service to be very important for increasing the coherence and communication of the eu with organisations around the world and thus increasing the eu's influence in the world.
written. ‒ the european external action service manages the european union's diplomacy with non-member states and deals with the eu's foreign and security policy. it creates and maintains strategic partnerships around the world and cooperates with the national diplomatic missions of the member states of various organisations. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part x. european external action service. i consider the european external action service to be very important for increasing the coherence and communication of the eu with organisations around the world and thus increasing the eu's influence in the world. it is important to simplify the management structures in order to reduce the levels of hierarchy leading to an increase in the efficiency of the entire institution.
written. ‒ the european external action service has continued to execute its budget without major errors and according to the court of auditors' estimate the overall level of errors in the administrative part is 0.5%. however, the internal administrative and financial framework of the eeas is still too complex and inflexible and the current structure does not allow the eeas to react in time to crises and the time needed to access information is too long. i also believe that the complexity and inflexibility resulting from the current budgetary mechanisms should be reduced in order to allow for a flexible and efficient use of delegation staff in the interest of the union. in the field of foreign and security policy, improved cooperation between member states is needed to achieve cost savings. i consider that transparency and accountability are key requirements not only for democratic oversight but also for the proper functioning and credibility of missions carried out under the flag of the european union and i voted against this discharge.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part viii. - european ombudsman because no significant deficiencies were identified in the court of auditors' annual report and no significant errors were found in administrative and other expenditure. i consider that the level of the concluded investigations compared to the ongoing ones is satisfactory and that the report on the work is clear and well structured. in addition, the employment policy needs to be improved and the transparency of all processes increased.
written. ‒ the european ombudsman was set up to investigate complaints against the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union and is fully independent. the ombudsman initiates an inquiry after receiving complaints from citizens, companies and organisations or on his own initiative when he suspects that the law has been breached. on the basis of the court of auditors' conclusion that no material shortcomings had been identified in the annual accounts, i supported the decision of mr czarneck and the european parliament to close the books of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013.
‒ the court of auditors concluded in its annual report for 2014 that no material shortcomings had been identified in relation to the audited issues relating to human resources and procurement for the european ombudsman's office. the court of auditors concluded on the basis of its audit work that the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies as a whole for the year ended 31 december 2013 were free from material error. the ombudsman's budget is entirely administrative and amounted in 2014 to 9 857 002 (eur 9 731 371 in 2013), of which eur 7 977 702 was allocated to heading 1 (expenditure relating to staff working for the institution), eur 1 346 800 to heading 2 (buildings, equipment and other dedicated operating expenditure) and eur 532 500 to heading 3 (expenditure relating to the performance of specific tasks carried out by the institution). the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the court of auditors called for the financial improvements to be continued in the following budgetary periods and therefore supported the decision on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the european ombudsman has an important function of investigating irregularities in the activities of the european institutions and bodies, and all citizens of the union, as well as residents of all member states, have the right to complain. to maintain the quality and success of this important function, it is crucial to ensure sustainable and efficient funding and i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors commends the ombudsman's financial management. i call on the ombudsman to bring his selection criteria into line with european public service standards in terms of quality, transparency, objectivity and equal opportunities as a matter of urgency. i welcome the progress made by the ombudsman in terms of gender balance, but given that gender imbalances still exist, i call on the ombudsman to continue to work towards improving gender balance. i reiterate my call on the ombudsman to include in his annual reports on work, in accordance with the existing rules on confidentiality and data protection, the results and consequences of closed proceedings conducted by the european anti-fraud office in which the institution or any individual employed by it has been the subject of an investigation.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european ombudsman investigates complaints and irregularities in the conduct of the eu institutions. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. in line with the strategy suspect 2019, the ombudsman places particular emphasis on own-initiative inquiries and a more systematic approach to tackling various problems. i hereby approve the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part viii. i believe that the role of the european ombudsman is important and instills trust in the institutions and the good functioning of the institutions in the minds of eu citizens. the transparency and up-to-date nature of the ombudsman's websites is particularly important in order to make it easier for citizens to see the institution's organisational structure and to find out about the possibilities of complaint.
‒ the european ombudsman investigates complaints and irregularities in the conduct of the eu institutions. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. in line with the strategy 'sustaining 2019', the ombudsman places particular emphasis on own-initiative inquiries and a more systematic approach to addressing various problems. i hereby approve the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part viii. i consider the european ombudsman to be a very important function that instills trust in the institutions and the correctness of their actions among eu citizens. the transparency and up-to-date nature of the ombudsman's websites is particularly important in order to make it easier for citizens to see the institution's organisational structure and to find out about the possibilities of complaint.
written. ‒ given the high number of complaints submitted by citizens of some member states, such as spain and poland, i believe that the ombudsman should improve his information and communication policies, but also establish stronger links for continued and regular cooperation with the european network of ombudsmen and national and regional ombudsmen. the level of satisfaction among the staff of the ombudsman's office was lower than expected, as a result of the key changes in the institution, and i sincerely hope that the measures taken in the meantime will correct the situation. the ombudsman's recruitment policy has been implemented in a number of areas, including the recruitment of temporary staff, the appointment of temporary staff and the appointment of temporary staff. in view of the above, i could not support this motion for a resolution of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part ix. - european data protection supervisor as it gives the discharge to allow the work started to continue smoothly. the 2014 annual report did not identify any significant irregularities or omissions and the administrative and other expenditure was implemented in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. however, i believe that there is a need to increase the level of transparency and to ensure more accessible access to information on procurement procedures and the criteria for selecting contractors.
‒ the european data protection supervisor (edps) is an independent supervisory authority whose task is to apply the instruments for the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data. the body was established in 2011 to work with other eu institutions to apply the highest standards of data protection. the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounts of the european data protection supervisor. the commission has therefore supported the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european data protection supervisor.
written. ‒ in 2014, the edps had a total budget of eur 8 012 953 (7 661 409 in 2013) and the rate of expenditure this year was 92% (84,7% in 2013), so i welcome the improved result achieved in the planning of expenditure. the european data protection supervisor should be able to provide the commission with the information necessary to carry out its tasks. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the european supervisor should be able to provide the information requested by the european data protection supervisor in accordance with the rules laid down in this regulation. in the light of the findings of the court of auditors, i have endorsed the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the primary objective of the european data protection supervisor is to ensure that the european institutions and bodies respect the right to privacy and data protection when using personal data. this is an important role, especially in light of the frequent revelations of the high level of compromise of our personal data and privacy in general. in view of the report on the work of the european data protection supervisor, i support the discharge to be given to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european data protection supervisor supervises the process of processing, collecting and recording the personal data of citizens in electronic or written form and ensures that data processing institutions comply with data protection rules. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part ix. european data protection supervisor. i consider the oversight of the scrutiny of the personal data of european union citizens to be an important task which is the basis of democracy and trust in the eu institutions. in addition, i consider that the communication and cooperation that the european data protection supervisor has with the commission, parliament and the council is crucial for the effective functioning of the system.
written. ‒ the eu institutions sometimes process, collect and record personal data of citizens in electronic or written form. the european data protection supervisor shall monitor that process and ensure that data processing entities comply with data protection rules. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i hereby approve the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part ix. european data protection supervisor. i consider the oversight of the scrutiny of eu citizens' personal data to be a very important task which is the basis of democracy and trust in the eu institutions. in addition, i consider that the communication and cooperation that the european data protection supervisor has with the commission, parliament and the council is crucial for the effective functioning of the system.
written. ‒ i voted against the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part ix. - european data protection supervisor, as the european data protection supervisor did not make available all the information on its policy and on conflicts of interest. i call for corrective measures and for strict and clear rules against the principle of 'rotating rights'. i consider that the details of all contracts awarded should be published on the agency's websites, because very little information on procurement procedures and exclusion and selection criteria is available on their websites. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the basis of which the commission may adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control, because of the importance of the eu agencies in the processes and policies of the union. the budgetary and financial management must be carried out in accordance with all the principles of good governance in order to raise the level of efficiency, consistency and coherence of all agencies. cooperation between agencies and with other eu institutions is key to achieving savings in certain areas of their operations and to strengthening synergies that enhance their effectiveness. it is certainly necessary to raise the level of transparency by increasing citizens' trust in the union institutions and agencies and to prevent corruption in the public sector. in this context, activities and measures aimed at communication and visibility are of particular importance in order to raise awareness of their activities and achievements.
written. ‒ in view of the increasing number of agencies in recent years, the report invited the european commission to look at the possibilities of merging and consolidating agencies in order to rationalise costs. the report also invites the agencies to transfer budget surpluses from previous periods to the union budget. i supported this 2014 discharge report: performance, financial management and control of eu agencies because i believe that sound financial management contributes to the alignment of the eu budget cycle and contributes to a better implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control of the eu agencies. the court of auditors' finding indicates that the budget for all agencies in 2014 amounted to around eur 1,9 billion, representing a decrease of around 5% compared to 2013 and around 1,4% of the general budget of the union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). the agencies do important work and have a direct impact on the daily lives of europe's citizens. i welcome the fact that the final accounts of all decentralised agencies present realistically and objectively, by all relevant parameters, their financial position and the results of their operations and their cash flows in 2014. i also welcome the fact that more than 80% of all decentralised agencies have their own anti-fraud strategies while of the four remaining agencies, three more are due to adopt this strategy document during the year. the principles of 'value for money' and 'eu added value' applicable to all european institutions and agencies should be an additional motivation for transparently informing citizens about their work and the results of the activities they carry out.
written. ‒ i support the report on the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies. the tasks entrusted to the european union agencies are of great importance and have a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens. for this reason, the number of agencies has increased considerably during the last century. i welcome the fact that the final financial statements were drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the applicable financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. financial transparency is important to ensure the best possible management of the budget paid by taxpayers. i take note of the benefits that synergies and joint procurement procedures under the common approach bring not only to the agencies but also to the commission. in this context, i regret that the commission is planning to start charging the agencies administrative fees for their services. i would remind the commission that the agencies receive funding from the same union budget and that these fees could result in a weaker participation in joint procurement procedures. i call on the commission to reconsider the introduction of fees for public procurement agencies run by the commission. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the european parliament in the work of the agency. finally, i recognise the role that agencies play in supporting eu policies.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of union citizens are of great importance. the independence of the agencies is also important and the main reason for their establishment was to carry out independent technical or scientific assessments. the agency's budget for 2014 was approximately eur 1,9 billion, representing a reduction of approximately 5% compared to 2013 and approximately 1,4% of the general budget of the union. the parliament, the council and the commission adopted in july 2012 a common approach for decentralised agencies, a political agreement on the future governance of agencies and their reform, which has led to visible progress and will lead to more balanced governance, improved efficiency and accountability and greater coherence. the high level of carry-overs of reserved appropriations remains one of the most common budgetary and financial management problems affecting the 28 agencies. however, those transfers are generally partially or fully justified by the multiannual nature of the agencies' operational programmes and do not necessarily refer to shortcomings in planning and budget implementation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial situation of the company was not affected by the measures. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the european parliament in its motion for a resolution stresses the importance of the tasks carried out by eu agencies, and the importance of their independence, as the main reason for establishing the agency was to carry out independent technical or scientific assessments, thus directly affecting the lives of eu citizens. it therefore encourages the agencies to consider how to approach union citizens. welcomes the guidance published by the commission in consultation with the agencies on performance indicators and the guidance developed by the commission on the recruitment of senior staff; it expects these guidelines to help agencies simplify procedures, thereby saving time and resources. takes note of good practices in relation to cooperation between agencies and encourages agencies to continue sharing common services where this leads to cost savings and increased efficiency; the commission has also concluded that the financial corrections provided for in the 2014 budget are proportionate to the actual implementation of the budget. i fully support this proposal.
written. ‒ i did not support this report because i believe that the eu agencies need to improve their operations in many areas. in particular, they should work towards improving the overall prevention of and fight against corruption in the public sector by using a comprehensive approach, starting with greater public access to documents and stricter rules on conflicts of interest, introducing and strengthening transparency registers and providing sufficient resources for the application of enforcement measures, and improving cooperation between member states and with relevant third countries. what i would also point out as one of the reasons for concern is the fact that some agencies have two seats and therefore i appeal, and i really hope that other members will do the same, that all double seats which have no operational added value be abolished at the first opportunity to prevent any unnecessary spending of taxpayers' money. i also propose that parliament, the council and the commission consider merging smaller agencies with similar or related tasks, as this would create efficiency-related savings in the long term, and this should be a priority for all of us.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014 because the budget implementation rate is 95% and no major deficiencies have been identified in the financial operations of the agency. the revised public procurement and employment policy has proven to be effective and efficient and the internal audit found no significant errors. the revised system of key performance indicators further enhances the level of performance of the agency and i have therefore endorsed this report.
‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators was established in 2011 as part of the third energy package and is based in ljubljana. the aim is to create a sustainable, secure, transparent and competitive internal energy market for all citizens of the european union. the audit established the reliability of all the agency's accounting documents and demonstrated the correctness and lawfulness of the agency's operations within the financial period 2014. i supported the report and the resolution of parliament dissolving the books of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
written. ‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators supports the creation of common rules and initiatives, looks after the development and maintenance of energy infrastructure and monitors the energy market. it is an institution whose objective is to create a competitive, sustainable, secure and transparent internal energy market for the benefit of all consumers in the eu. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the agency's activities in the field of energy efficiency. in preparing the numerous instruments for the establishment of the common energy market, the agency cooperates with the eu institutions and their stakeholders, as well as with national regulatory authorities. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 10 880 000, representing a reduction of 8,80% compared to 2013. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to provide further information on the implementation of the budget. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the agency's work is regular, transparent and lawful. in view of the findings of the court of auditors and the importance of the agency's work, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the third energy package, which established the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, aims to provide an effective regulatory framework for the development of an open and competitive energy market within the union. at the opening of the agency, energy commissioner günther oettinger stated that his priority was to remove all barriers to the internal energy market so that energy could flow freely throughout the union. the agency has a key role to play in this regard, given its responsibilities in addressing cross-border problems of national regulators. the audit of the agency's internal control standards carried out by the agency in 2014 revealed no significant deficiencies. i call on the agency to continue to work on improving internal controls and to ensure that the controls put in place are effective and contribute to achieving its objectives.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the aim of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is to create a competitive, sustainable, secure and transparent internal energy market for the benefit of all eu consumers. the agency's main task is to assist national energy regulators in carrying out their tasks at eu level and to coordinate their activities. the court of auditors, in its report, gave its reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were in accordance with eu rules and legislation. the agency's entire budget is financed from the union budget and the 2014 budget is reduced by 8,80% compared to 2013. on 31 january 2015, the management board of the agency adopted a revised policy on the prevention and handling of conflicts of interest, which is a positive step towards greater transparency and integrity of the agency. in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ according to the 2014 financial reports of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, its final budget was eur 10 880 000, a decrease of 8,80% compared to 2013. in any event, as regards the measures taken on the basis of the recommendations contained in the 2013 discharge, the two observations of the court of auditors are now marked 'completed'. the agency has also been successful in the area of internal control and procurement and recruitment procedures. the european parliament shall, in its report, give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget. in addition, it determines that the final annual financial statements of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators shall conform to the format annexed to the court of auditors' report. i support this report.
written. ‒ i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the european data protection supervisor. i will oppose the discharge of any part of the budget of the european union until that budget as a whole receives a positive security statement from the european court of auditors.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014 because concrete measures have been taken to implement the recommendations of the 2013 discharge. the implementation rate is 97,91%, and the level of appropriations reserved has been improved. public procurement and recruitment procedures have also been improved, but i believe that the level of transparency needs to be increased and measures to prevent conflicts of interest need to be strengthened. the discharge will allow the work to continue, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the office of the european regulators for electronic communications was established with the aim of promoting the consistent implementation of eu regulation in the field of electronic communications in all member states. the commission has also received a letter from the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 and the budget for the financial year 2015.
written. ‒ i welcome the introduction of a detailed procedure for monitoring the implementation of the budget on a monthly basis, which the office introduced last year to ensure its proper implementation. it has been mentioned and has resulted in improved budget implementation. i also welcome the office's efforts to improve the accuracy of budget planning and to minimise the unused appropriations. i also welcome the call for tender for the 'neutrality study' which, at the request of the office, assessed the importance of net neutrality for consumers in the union. the court of auditors' finding on the annual accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014 is that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, and the financial report showed that the final budget of the office was eur 4 162 874, representing an increase of 17% compared to 2013. i supported the decision and expect the office to continue to carry out its activities with a high level of transparency and to continue to provide the public and all interested parties with objective, reliable and easily accessible information about its work.
written. ‒ the body of european regulators for electronic communications was established in 2009 as a committee composed of national regulatory authorities from all member states, with the aim of promoting good practice among national regulatory authorities and developing common approaches, methodologies and ways of acting on electronic communications issues within the framework of european legislation. i welcome the improved budget implementation rates that have resulted from the introduction of a detailed monthly monitoring programme for the proper implementation of the budget and its annual work programme. i also support the office of the european regulators for electronic communications in their amendment of the information security policy to address the identified deficiencies. i note with satisfaction the preparation of a service level agreement between the office and the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) which should reduce the risks related to the information security of the office.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) is an agency of the european union that provides technical and administrative support to berec, the body of european regulators for electronic communications that seeks to ensure that relevant eu legislation is consistently applied for the purpose of a functioning single market for electronic communications. the court of auditors, in its report, expressed its reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were in accordance with eu rules and legislation. the office has introduced a detailed monthly monitoring programme which has resulted in improved budget execution rates with the aim of ensuring the proper implementation of the budget and its annual work programme. in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ whereas, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014 was eur 4 162 874, representing an increase of 17% compared to 2013, the increase is mainly the result of the inclusion of internal assigned revenue from the previous year. in addition, it determines that the final annual accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications are in the format annexed to the court of auditors' report. in its report, the european parliament gives discharge to the management board of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the budget of the body for the financial year 2014, and approves the closure of the accounts of that office for the same financial year. i support this report.
written. ‒ this report states that the annual report of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) could play an important role in upholding transparency, accountability and integrity rules and invites the office to include a regular chapter on these components in its annual report. it is worrying and dangerous that this issue is only now being raised and that there has been no talk before about transparency, accountability and integrity, which is the fundamental problem of all eu agencies. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft budget of the office of the european regulator for electronic communications for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014, as it gives discharge to the director of the centre and allows the work started to continue. the 2013 recommendations have led to certain measures to improve certain aspects of financial management and the centre has been found to comply with 80% of the internal control standards. sharing services with other agencies further strengthens existing synergies, which is why i support this report.
‒ the translation centre for the bodies of the european union provides translation services throughout europe and cooperates actively with other translation services of the union. the centre specialises in editing, proofreading, translation and working on linguistic terminology. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the commission's 2014 discharge decision.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge for the financial year 2014 of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union as an essential link between all the institutions with the aim of improving the quality of communication between the bodies of the european union and the member states. the court of auditors, in its 2014 annual financial report, considered that the centre's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular and therefore supported its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the financial report showed that the final budget of the translation centre for bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 was eur 56 268 041, representing an increase of 7,81% compared to 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission should also continue to monitor the implementation of the budget in the light of the progress made in the implementation of the budget.
‒ the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, based in luxembourg, has its own legal personality and is financed autonomously by fees paid by the agencies, offices and institutions for the provision of translation services. the centre shall provide translation services for other union agencies and institutions and, where necessary, assist other bodies that have their own translation services when their capacities are insufficient. the centre is constantly developing and increasing both in terms of work and staff to handle the increased volume of work. the centre currently employs 200 staff, including about 100 translators. it is important to note that the centre also participates in the work of the interinstitutional committee on translation, which aims to promote cooperation based on the principles of subsidiarity and rationalisation in the field of translation, leading to considerable savings. i hope that in the years to come the centre will continue to work successfully, integrating all the official languages, including those of the new member states, in an equal way. i support the decision of the european parliament to dismiss the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the translation centre provides translation services to the european union agencies and bodies across europe and cooperates with other eu translation services. the court of auditors in its report expressed reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounting records are reliable and that the related transactions are regular and in compliance with eu legislation. i consider the cooperation agreement between the centre and the european railway agency (era) to serve as the seat of the era's disaster recovery system to be positive, allowing savings and a higher level of safety for both bodies. i therefore endorse the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ according to its financial statements, the final budget of the translation centre for bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 was eur 56 268 041, an increase of 7,81% compared to 2013. in order to reduce the budget surplus, the centre has carried out two customer recoveries since 2013 for a total of eur 4 900 000. notes with concern that the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the translation centre for bodies of the european union for the financial year 2012 was published in the official journal of the european union on 16 june 2013; the european parliament therefore discharges the director of the translation centre for bodies of the european union from the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014 in its report and approves the closure of the books of the translation centre for bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014. i support this report.
written. ‒ i object to the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014. like most other agencies, the cdt needs to work on more transparent business reports. this is supported by some remarks in the court of auditors' report on budget surpluses and reservations, which have not occurred once but are repeatedly occurring, as well as on the unexplained increase in the price of some services, which is quite worrying. i therefore appeal to the centre to provide updated information on current fees, deposits and surpluses.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational education and training for the financial year 2014, as the implementation rate of the 2014 budget is 98,93% and no major shortcomings in financial operations have been identified. the commission has also taken steps to improve the transparency of the financial markets and to improve the transparency of the financial markets. i believe that the discharge will allow the centre to continue its work without disruption, although some policies still need to be improved and the level of transparency raised.
‒ the european centre for the development of vocational training was established in 1975 to support the development of european vocational education and training, to raise awareness of policies and to help implement them. the centre brings together trade unions, teachers, pupils, students, various educational institutions and employers' organisations and all those actively involved in training and vocational education. the commission has also received a letter from the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 and the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts are reliable. the final budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 was eur 17 275 766, a decrease of 3,62%, compared to 2013, according to the financial statements. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft budget for the financial year 2013 in order to take account of the new financial perspective. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
‒ the european centre for the development of vocational training has an advisory role and assists the commission, the member states, the eu institutions and other organisations with which it cooperates to make informed decisions on vocational training policies on the basis of its research and data. the centre provides its staff with up-to-date information on the state and trends in vocational education and training in the eu and produces studies and reports on vocational education and training issues such as quality, transparency and accreditation of non-formal learning, sector trends, new qualifications, funding, etc. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i agree with the decision of the european parliament to grant the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. the centre has a very important role to play in promoting vocational education and training across the union at a time when new methods of training are needed. the centre also makes a major contribution to policies aimed at exploring the potential of vocational education and training to support economic development and facilitate the transition from education to work.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) assists in the development and implementation of european union vocational training policies. it monitors labour market trends and helps the european commission, member states, employers' organisations and trade unions to align training opportunities with labour market needs. the court of auditors has expressed in its report a reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are in accordance with eu rules and legislation. the centre has adopted an anti-fraud strategy and a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in the centre in 2014. the centre has been providing support services continuously and effectively during 2014 and 95 of the 98 posts in the establishment plan have been filled. in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014.
the european parliament in its report notes that the centre's management board adopted a conflict of interest prevention and handling policy in october 2014 that is adapted to the centre's position and covers possible situations of conflict of interest that could arise in the centre. furthermore, it welcomes the regular training organised by the centre to raise awareness among staff on the correct implementation of that policy. grants the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014, and authorises the closure of the accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014, i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i did not support the discharge reports for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational education and training (cedefop) for the financial year 2014. i am concerned by the fact that the risk management plan in this report shows that there is a risk that the centre will not be able to address unforeseen external stakeholder demands because its available resources are already overloaded, which is unacceptable for an eu agency.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014 because the implementation rate of the budget for 2014 is increased to 97,40%. the budget monitoring system has been improved by introducing monthly budget reports and meetings of financial flows actors to analyse possible transfers. however, i believe that the level of transparency needs to be further increased, and the principles of integrity and accountability fully respected. the granting of a discharge will allow the work to continue.
‒ the european police college was established in 2005. the purpose is to bring together senior police officers from across europe to ensure the best possible fight against criminal activity and the maintenance of public order and security. on the basis of the report of mr vaughan's representative, i supported the discharge, given that it was granted on the basis of a decision of the court of auditors.
the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014, stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the college are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the budgetary controls during the financial year 2014 resulted in an execution rate of 97,40%, an increase of 2,51% compared to 2013, while the payment execution rate was 82,40%, a decrease of 6,74% compared to 89,14% in 2013. the final budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014 was eur 8 575 859, representing an increase of 1,48% compared to 2013. in view of the orderly findings and the situation presented, i have supported the discharge for the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european police college brings together senior police officers from across europe to foster cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, public security and public order. as regards transparency and open procurement and recruitment procedures, i note that the academy has adopted guidelines for the evaluation of candidates as well as a short-listing matrix, which the staff selection board has used in recruitment procedures and in which the evaluation threshold is attached to their explanation. on the financial side, the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014 that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the college were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european police college (cepol) brings together senior police officers from across europe to foster crossborder cooperation in the fight against crime, public security and public order. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had acquired a reasonable belief that the academy's annual financial statements were reliable and that the underlying transactions complied with eu rules and legislation. the budget monitoring during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 97,40%, an increase of 2,51% compared to 94,89% in 2013. i consider it positive that the academy has improved its budget monitoring system by introducing monthly budget reports and regular meetings of all actors in the financial flows in order to analyse and minimise possible transfers, which has led to a continuous decrease in the percentage points of the level of transfers and cancellations over the last five years. in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ as the final budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014 was eur 8 575 859, an increase of 1,48% compared to 2013, and as the entire budget of the academy comes from the union budget, the european parliament has adopted a report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014. in that report, parliament called on the academy to improve its procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union and to actively contribute to a results-oriented discharge procedure. notes, however, that the final annual accounts of the european police college are in the format annexed to the court of auditors' report and therefore gives a discharge to the director of the european police college in respect of the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts for the same financial year; i support this report.
written. ‒ in examining this report, i am concerned that the recruitment procedures of the european police college (cepol) are still not fully transparent and that the requirements regarding professional experience are not always in line with the implementing rules of the staff regulations of the college. cepol has accepted the guidelines on the evaluation of candidates, but has not yet made those guidelines available to the public. the 2014 annual activity report does not contain any information on these guidelines and they should jointly request cepol to include them in the report and to inform the discharge authority of the impact of the guidelines on the recruitment process. cepol has clear shortcomings that apply to all eu agencies and should be addressed by all from greater public access to documents and stricter rules on conflicts of interest, the introduction and strengthening of transparency registers and the provision of sufficient resources for the application of enforcement measures. the commission has also provided a number of additional information to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget of the european police college (cepol) for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 because corrective actions were taken to meet the recommendations of the 2013 discharge. the commission has also received a letter from the president of the council, mr giscard d'estaing, on behalf of the union, in which he stated that the union would continue to support the efforts of the member states to achieve the objectives of the union's external policy. in this context, it is necessary to increase the level of transparency of all the agency's processes and to improve its procurement and recruitment procedures. i support the agency's strategy to prevent, investigate and correct fraud, while further raising awareness of the conflict of interest policy is needed. it should also be noted that the internal audit and control did not find any major deficiencies and i therefore endorse this report.
‒ the european aviation safety agency was established in 2002 to help the commission develop new rules on aviation safety. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014, as it was granted on the basis of a decision of the court of auditors.
written. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of aircraft that were involved in the accident. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to provide further information on the implementation of the budget. in view of the orderly business conducted and given that the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the development of air safety rules is important to move towards the goal of a single european sky, which is important for the mobility of eu citizens, but also for the efficiency of those who often travel by air on european routes for business reasons. the commission should also be able to verify the compliance of the air carriers with the essential requirements set out in the annex to regulation (ec) no 2111/2005. i would point out that the agency's anti-fraud strategy sets out the responsibilities, objectives and measures taken by the agency to prevent, detect, investigate and remedy fraud. i note that in 2014 an anti-fraud officer was appointed and that in the context of the anti-fraud strategy an action plan with measures to be implemented in 2015 and 2016 was introduced. i commend the fact that no fraud was detected in 2014 as part of the anti-fraud strategy.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european aviation safety agency (easa) has specific regulatory and enforcement tasks in the field of aviation safety and is a key part of the european union's strategy to establish and maintain a high uniform level of aviation safety in europe. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 and welcome the measures taken by easa to increase efficiency and achieve savings. the agency has examined and verified a large number of declarations of financial interests to ensure that they are in line with its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. however, there are instances of conflict of interest with respect to various members of the board and administrative staff and i consider that increasing transparency is of paramount importance. i also consider it important to conclude a headquarters agreement for the agency in order to promote transparency and security in the conditions under which the agency and its staff operate.
‒ the european aviation safety agency is crucial to establishing and maintaining a high uniform level of aviation safety in europe. the agency shall provide expert technical support to the commission in the preparation of draft aviation safety regulations in the different areas and shall provide its opinion in the conclusion of relevant international agreements. in view of the above, i consider that the efficiency of the agency is of great importance for the eu and the member states. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014. i agree with the recommendation that the agency should conclude a headquarters agreement for the agency, which is in line with the common approach agreement for eu decentralised agencies, which requires that all agencies conclude a headquarters agreement before the agency can start operating. furthermore, i consider that easa should provide explanations on the cases of conflicts of interest concerning different board members and administrative staff which negatively affect the transparency and accountability of the agency. the amount of funds carried over to the following year should also be kept to a minimum.
written. ‒ i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency (easa) for the financial year 2014. as with the other agencies, there are a number of issues that need to be addressed by easa and for which i cannot vote in favour. the fact that only one third of the agency's budget is financed by the public sector, while the remaining two thirds are financed by industry, is a matter of concern, and this is very dangerous as these financial links with industry could affect the agency's independence. the commission should therefore be able to assess the compatibility of the measures with the union's air safety legislation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014, as the discharge allows the office to continue its work without interruption. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i support an updated recruitment policy that improves recruitment guidelines and selects candidates. the internal audit found no significant deficiencies, but there is a need to improve the policy on prevention and handling of conflicts of interest and to increase the level of transparency.
written. ‒ the european asylum support office was established by a regulation of the european parliament and of the council. the key task of the office is the concrete implementation of the common european asylum system. the easo was established with the aim of promoting better cooperation on asylum issues and helping all member states to fulfil international and european obligations in order to better protect people. the court of auditors has verified the reliability and accuracy of the accounting records and i have therefore supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office on this basis.
written. ‒ the european asylum support office is an agency that acts as a centre of expertise for asylum, contributes to the development of the common european asylum system by facilitating coordination and strengthening practical cooperation between member states on many aspects of asylum, helps member states to fulfil their european and international obligations to achieve the protection of people in need, provides practical and technical support to member states and the european commission, provides operational support to member states with special needs for assistance and to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure, provides evidence-based input for eu policies and legislation in all areas that have a direct or indirect impact on asylum. the work of the agency is very significant in these challenging times. i supported the relief committee precisely because of the need for the office to work on asylum issues.
written. ‒ the european asylum support office is an independent asylum expertise centre that supports, facilitates, coordinates and strengthens practical cooperation between member states and contributes to the implementation of the common european asylum system. in light of recent events, the work of this office is becoming even more significant. the european parliament has decided to grant a discharge to the director-general of the european asylum support office in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014, and i support that decision. i note with concern that the office transferred eur 1 300 000 in budgetary commitments which were not covered by legal commitments, in breach of the financial regulation.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european asylum support office (easo) is an agency of the european union that plays a key role in the concrete implementation of the common european asylum system (ceas). the easo was established with the aim of improving practical cooperation on asylum issues and helping member states to fulfil their european and international obligations to provide protection to people in need. the court of auditors in its report gave an assurance that the office's annual accounting records are reliable and that the transactions comply with eu rules and legislation. i therefore support that report. i note that irregular transfers in the budget management system need to be corrected and average delays in payments reduced. the difficulties in managing the current refugee crisis are likely to further increase the workload of the agency and require an increase in its budget and staff accordingly. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the agency makes greater efforts, manages its budget better and adopts an action plan in order to perform its duties in the best possible way in the years ahead.
written. ‒ the european asylum support office (easo) is an agency of the european union whose key role is to implement the common european asylum system (ceas) in practice. the easo was established with the aim of improving practical cooperation in the field of asylum and helping member states to fulfil their european and international obligations to provide protection to people in need. the easo shall also act as an asylum expertise centre and provide support to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular strain. the current refugee crisis puts a great deal of pressure on easo, which should be taken into account. i support the report of my colleague mr vaughan on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014. i think it is good that easo has updated its recruitment policy to reflect changes in recruitment and selection guidelines that include further steps and controls to ensure transparency and equal treatment. the court also pointed out that the office's annual financial statements accurately reflect its financial position and that transactions are legal and regular.
‒ the european asylum support office has certainly faced a number of difficulties lately due to the refugee crisis, but this does not justify the many irregularities that have been observed in the work of the office. the court of auditors' report shows that the office has experienced frequent staff turnover and that 14 staff members left the office in 2014, including four persons in key positions. the office should investigate the reasons for the high frequency of staff turnover and report to the discharge authority on the measures taken to address the issue. the office has not published any information on the activities of the office, including the number of staff and the number of employees. in the light of the above, i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) for the financial year 2014 and i voted against it. the current refugee crisis is likely to further increase the agency's tasks and require an increase in its budget and staff accordingly. it is therefore high time that the agency put more effort into managing its budget better and adopting an action plan to optimally carry out its duties in the years ahead.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014, as the implementation rate of the 2014 budget is 99,81%, and the level of committed appropriations carried over has been reduced from 16,50% to 15,90%. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned was higher than the average price of the product concerned. the authority has also provided information on the impact of the measures on the financial markets and on the financial markets in general. the authority will also assess whether the measures in question are imputable to the state.
‒ the european banking authority is an independent body of the union, but accountable to parliament, the council and the commission, and one of the three bodies of the european system of financial supervision. the main objectives of the european banking authority are to ensure efficient and consistent levels of prudential regulation and to ensure the proper functioning of the banking sector. the court of auditors' report has established the regularity of the accounting records and i therefore supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european banking authority (eba) is an independent eu body whose job is to ensure an effective and consistent level of prudential regulation and supervision of the european banking sector. its main objectives are to maintain financial stability in the eu and to ensure the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of the banking sector. the financial report showed that the final budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 was eur 33599863, representing an increase of 29,39% compared to 2013. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the agency's annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. taking into account the findings of the court of auditors, and the role of the authority in establishing high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices and in the consistent application of legally binding union acts, as well as in monitoring and assessing market developments and promoting the protection of depositors and investors, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ ensuring the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of the banking sector is important for the financial stability of the european union and therefore the work of the european banking authority, especially in terms of its transparency and lack of conflicts of interest of employees, is of the utmost importance for the future of the union. the agency should therefore be encouraged to do more to raise awareness of the conflict of interest policy among its staff and to work at the same time to raise awareness. the commission should also ensure that the recruitment and placement of candidates is carried out in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. i also call for overall improvement in preventing and combating corruption through a holistic approach, starting with better public access to documents and stricter rules on conflicts of interest, the introduction or strengthening of transparency registers and the provision of sufficient resources for law enforcement measures, and through enhanced cooperation between member states and with relevant third countries.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european banking authority (eba) is an independent body of the european union whose job is to ensure an effective and consistent level of prudential regulation and supervision of the european banking sector. the main objectives include maintaining financial stability in the european union and ensuring the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of the banking sector. the court of auditors stated in its report that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the authority for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are sound and in accordance with eu legislation. the role of the authority in promoting a common supervisory regime in the internal market is of paramount importance in ensuring the financial stability of more connected, efficient and secure financial markets, as well as greater consumer protection in the union, and this can be achieved by promoting fairness and transparency in the product and financial services market. in view of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ since the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the authority for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, the european parliament draws the following conclusions. in its report, it gives a discharge to the executive director of the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014, and notes that the final annual accounts of the european banking authority are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. furthermore, it approves the closure of the accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014. moreover, it underlines that the role of the authority in promoting a common supervisory regime across the internal market is key to guaranteeing financial stability and greater consumer protection in the eu. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ the report finds it worrying that the european banking authority has not kept the union legislator fully and sufficiently informed of all the details of its ongoing work. in some cases, documents were only forwarded to the union legislator after their contents had been leaked to the public, which is indeed unacceptable and unacceptable for an agency of the european union. these are just some of the reasons why i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority (eba) for the financial year 2014. in carrying out its activities, eba should pay particular attention to safeguarding the security and orderly functioning of the financial sector, ensuring compliance with union law, respecting the principle of proportionality and adhering to the fundamental principles of the internal market for financial services.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014, as the budget and financial management have proved to be successful and the implementation rate of the 2014 budget was 98,77%. the commission has also identified improvements in budget planning and operational meetings, and public procurement and recruitment procedures have proved successful. the internal control standards have been implemented almost completely and the internal audit has shown positive results. in that context, i support the discharge and voted for this report.
‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control is an agency established in 2005 with the aim of strengthening protection against communicable diseases in the european union and beyond. the main task of the centre is to assess, identify and communicate to the member states information on potential or existing threats to human health. i have supported the discharge report for the european centre for disease prevention and control. the discharge is based on the court of auditors' audit which found that there were no financial irregularities in the accounting records.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge of the centre for disease control and prevention, which was established by a regulation of the european parliament and of the council. the centre's mission is to contribute to the defence of europe against infectious diseases such as influenza, sars and hiv/aids and the necessary activities undertaken in the event of the spread of ebola, with more than 100 staff members dedicated to the union's response to that crisis. although the centre has a small number of staff, it has a wide network of partners throughout the eu and in the eea/efta member states. in cooperation with national health authorities, it is working to establish and strengthen disease surveillance and early warning systems at european level. the centre shall cooperate with the european union and the member states in the field of public health and public health education and training, including in the field of public health, and with the european union agency for fundamental rights. the level of the swedish contribution to the centre's work was raised between 2010 and 2013, which had a total budgetary impact of eur 5 million more for the centre's 2014 budget. the centre for operational needs requested an additional eur 2 million from the union budget to cover the necessary costs. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control analyses and interprets data from eu member states on 52 communicable diseases and conditions using the european surveillance system. it provides scientific advice to eu member states' governments and institutions on the basis of the data analysed. it ensures early detection and analysis of emerging threats to the eu and coordinates the european training programme for epidemiological interventions and helps eu member state governments prepare for the event of a disease outbreak. i welcome the fact that in 2014 an anti-fraud strategy was developed in line with the guidelines published by the european anti-fraud office. the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the application of the union state aid rules to the aid scheme for the coal and steel industry.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) is an agency whose aim is to strengthen protection against communicable diseases in the european union. the main tasks shall include the assessment, identification and transmission of information to member states on potential or existing threats to the health of eu citizens and shall be achieved through the cooperation of the ecdc with national health authorities, with the aim of strengthening and developing disease surveillance and early warning systems. the court of auditors, in its report, gave its reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. i consider it important to carry out detailed checks on conflicts of interest in relation to calls for tender, procurement, employment and contracts in order to strengthen transparency and confirm the centre's accountability.
‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) was established in 2005 and some of its main tasks are to provide scientific advice to governments and institutions and to help member state governments prepare for disease outbreaks. in this way, the ecdc makes a major contribution to strengthening europe's defence against communicable diseases. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. during the ebola outbreak, the centre was instrumental in providing an eu-wide response to the ebola problem and demonstrated its flexibility, service orientation and commitment to scientific excellence. in addition, the centre listened to the court of auditors and made efforts to complete the corrective actions and to develop an anti-fraud strategy in line with the guidelines published by the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the court of auditors also found that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2014 were legal and regular in all material respects.
written. ‒ i did not support the report of the rapporteur, mr derek vaughan, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for the financial year 2014, and i voted against it for several reasons. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament and the council with the necessary information to enable them to take decisions on the implementation of the union's budget. at the end of the year, the centre had a total of 182 temporary agents, 92 contract agents and three seconded national experts, and the staff of the centre includes nationals of all member states except luxembourg and croatia. as a representative from croatia, this particularly bothered me because neither croatia nor luxembourg is any less important than the other member states. i hereby appeal to the centre to correct this injustice.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014, as it gives the discharge to the executive director of the agency and allows the uninterrupted continuation of the activities started. improved reporting methods and modernisation of financial procedures have contributed to sound budgetary and financial management. the recruitment and procurement procedures have not revealed any deficiencies that would call for discharge. the improved conflict of interest policy strategy and the increased level of transparency can certainly raise the level of consistency and good governance of the agency, and i therefore support this report.
‒ the european chemicals agency was established in 2007 with the aim of ensuring the safe use of chemicals. the purpose of the agency is to implement eu-level legislation on chemicals that contributes to better human health, the environment, innovation and the competitiveness of the european union. the court of auditors has confirmed by a report that the accounting records of the european chemicals agency are in accordance with the rules and that there are no material errors. on the basis of the above, i have supported the discharge report for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european chemicals agency is an agency of the european union, which works to improve the quality of life and ensure the safe use of chemicals in europe. the european chemicals agency (echa) is responsible for ensuring the consistent implementation of european chemicals legislation, taking into account human health and environmental protection, and promoting innovation and competitiveness. the agency helps companies comply with chemicals legislation, advocates for the safe use of chemicals, addresses issues related to potentially harmful chemicals and informs stakeholders about chemicals. the agency's expenditure related to biocidal products is partly financed by fees paid by industry and partly by a union subsidy for 2014 under the biocidal products regulation. the agency's budget is financed by a union grant for the largest part of its budget, as the agency only started to open accounts with entities entered in the register, in accordance with the regulation, as from 1 september 2014. the rate of implementation of the budget was 97,08%, and the rate of implementation of the appropriations for payments was 87,46%. the implementation rate of appropriations increased by 3,28% compared with the previous year. the court of auditors, in its report, considers the implementation rates of the budget for titles i and ii to be satisfactory. in view of the importance of the agency for ensuring chemical safety and sound financial management, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european chemicals agency aims to ensure the consistency of chemical management in the european union, providing technical and scientific advice, guidance and information on chemicals. the authority also has the responsibility for coordinating and establishing new regulations. i support the decision of the european parliament to grant the director of the european chemicals agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the agency's staff and the european parliament have been consulted on the implementation of the recommendations of the court of auditors' thematic report no 15/2012 on the management of conflicts of interest in selected eu agencies. i also note that the agency regularly reviews and updates its conflict of interest policy. improving the prevention of conflicts of interest is important not only for the impartial and high-quality work of the agency, but also for earning the trust of eu citizens.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european chemicals agency (echa) works to promote the safe use of chemicals. it also provides information on chemicals and their safe use through a unique free database. the european chemicals agency (echa) is responsible for the processing of industrial chemicals and for their compliance with european union legislation. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014, has given its reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in addition, echa has published on its website for public consultation the declarations of financial interests of all official bodies, as well as of the members of the management board and the board of appeal, which is positive and important for further developing reporting methods and modernising financial procedures. in view of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 and consider that by developing innovation, echa contributes to human health and environmental protection as well as to competitiveness in europe.
‒ the european chemicals agency (echa) ensures that information on the hazards and safe use of chemicals is available to all in order to ensure the highest level of protection for people and the environment. echa becomes the world's leading regulator for the safe use of chemicals and the application of new eu chemicals legislation. the european chemicals agency (echa) is a european agency for the environment, public health and food safety (echa) established in 2005 to promote the scientific, technical and scientific advancement of the chemicals industry. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014, has given its reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency has also implemented the recommendations of the court of auditors' thematic report on the management of conflicts of interest in selected european union agencies and regularly reviews and updates its conflict of interest policies, which i consider to be positive.
written. ‒ given the considerable difficulties of the european chemicals agency (echa) in obtaining additional subsidies for years in which the financial revenue from biocide fees is lower than estimated, in the absence of a financial reserve, i did not support this report. this is supported by the fact that the agency itself is aware that it will be very difficult for it to continue to fulfil all its non-reimbursable obligations if this situation continues and is not compensated by a higher subsidy amount. the agency should also implement an anti-fraud strategy as soon as possible, which should have been done long ago.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, as the budget implementation rate was 99,19% and the budget and financial management proved to be successful. the commission has also received comments from the sampled exporting producers. i believe that there is a need to raise awareness of the policy on conflicts of interest and, in line with this, the principle of transparency is of the utmost importance. the deficiencies identified by internal control and audit are not of such a nature as to prevent the granting of discharge.
‒ the european environment agency (eea) works to promote sustainable development and the preservation of the natural environment in the european union, and provides key information to policy makers. the agency has the role of an analyst and assistant, informing all member states in an in-depth manner on how to protect the environment and which regulations to implement. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the principle of proportionality.
‒ the european environment agency is a key source of information for all actors involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy, as well as for the general public. the eea's mission is to help the community and the member states make informed decisions on improving the environment, integrating environmental issues into economic policies and moving towards sustainability, and to coordinate the european environment information and observation network. the 2014 financial report showed a budget implementation rate of 99,19% and a payment execution rate of 87,19%. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the agency's work is lawful, orderly and regular. in view of the findings and the importance of the agency's work, and bearing in mind that the agency's data are important users, alongside european and national authorities and the business community, academia, non-governmental organisations and other parts of civil society, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european environment agency aims to ensure quality and independent environmental information. it is a key source of information for all actors, including the general public, involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy. the agency assists the community and the member states in making informed decisions on improving the environment by integrating environmental issues into economic policies and by coordinating the european environment information and observation network. i support the discharge given by the european parliament to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2012 amounts to eur 52 573 071, an increase of 6,70% compared to 2013. i point out the deficiencies identified in the court of auditors' report in the agency's ex ante and ex post verifications and call on the agency to improve its operations in line with the court of auditors' report.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european environment agency (eea) works to promote sustainable development and progress in protecting europe's environment by providing relevant and reliable information to policy-makers and decision-makers, and to the general public. the court of auditors, in its report, gave its reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency has reduced its staff in line with the principles laid down in the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and its administrative costs are lower than those of similar agencies. in view of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. it is of particular importance that the agency applies strictly the measures relating to discretion and exclusion in relation to public procurement, that it always carries out thorough ex ante controls and that it applies exclusion criteria to exclude undertakings in the event of any conflict of interest, which is crucial for the protection of the union's financial interests.
‒ the european environment agency provides high-quality and independent environmental information and serves as a source of information for all actors involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy, as well as for the general public. in this way, the agency helps the eu and the member states make informed decisions on improving the environment, while integrating environmental issues into economic policies and moving towards sustainability. i support the report by mr vaughan on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the year 2014, confirmed that the accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget.
written. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2014. the agency should start to apply more strictly the measures relating to discretion and exclusion in public procurement, carry out thorough prior checks and apply exclusion criteria to exclude companies in the event of any conflict of interest, which is crucial for the protection of the financial interests of the union, this should be a priority for all of us. in addition, the agency should be encouraged to increase awareness of the conflict of interest policy among its staff, while at the same time working to raise awareness and to make integrity and transparency indispensable in recruitment and performance review processes.
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014, as the discharge granted to the executive director of the agency allows the unhindered continuation of the activities started. the budget implementation rate of 99,9% indicates that the budgetary and financial management has been correctly implemented and in line with the policies of the agency. i fully support the adoption of a policy to prevent conflicts of interest, and the improvement of enforcement measures such as checks on declarations of financial interest. the structured and coordinated operation of the agency's internal processes certainly contributes to its success and i therefore consider it essential to ensure the smooth implementation of measures and activities.
‒ the european fisheries control agency was established in 2005 to ensure the effective and uniform application of the rules of the common fisheries policy in the member states of the european union. i supported the discharge report of the european fisheries control agency (efca) on the basis of the court of auditors' report which concluded that there were no irregularities in the accounting records.
‒ the european fisheries control agency was established in 2005 as a key element to improve compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. it improves consistent and effective implementation by bringing together national and eu resources for the control, inspection and surveillance of fishing activities and their coordination. operational coordination, a key task of the agency, has helped to overcome implementation gaps caused by differences in the resources and priorities of control systems in the member states. the efca will also provide the commission with the necessary information to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the control strategy. the financial report showed that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 9 217 150 and that the budget implementation rate was 99,09%. the court of auditors found that the agency's work during 2014 was lawful, orderly and regular. i supported the discharge because of the agency's importance in eu fisheries management and its assessment of compliance and economic efficiency in fisheries at sea.
‒ the european fisheries control agency is an independent executive body that cooperates with the european commission, the member states, regional advisory councils and third parties such as regional fisheries organisations. the missions of the said agency are numerous and include coordinating the surveillance and inspection activities of the member states under the common fisheries policy, contributing to the joint research and development of new control and inspection bodies, organising the implementation of joint national control and inspection resources, etc. the agency is also of particular importance as it plays a major role in bringing member states closer together and ensuring better and more effective fisheries controls at union level through activities such as operational coordination, joint training of inspectors, implementation of coordination and exchange of knowledge and experience. the final budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 9 217 500, according to the financial statements. i agree with parliament's decision to discharge the director-general of the european fisheries control agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i personally attach great importance to fisheries policy and welcome the agency's efficiency in carrying out all the tasks it fulfils.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european fisheries control agency (efca) was established to strengthen control and surveillance of the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) in order to preserve the sustainable use of fisheries resources. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014, stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and in accordance with eu legislation. the agency adopted a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in october 2014, which is in line with the requirement for the agency to be transparent and accountable. it also made efforts in the context of increasing challenges to strengthen its business model by streamlining, simplifying and modernising the organisation. in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014. it is important that the objectives of the reformed common fisheries policy entail a key role for the monitoring and coordination of those objectives and it is therefore necessary to increase the availability of the financial and human resources of the agency.
‒ the european fisheries control agency (efca) promotes the highest common standards of surveillance, inspection and monitoring under the common fisheries policy. the agency is essential for operational cooperation between member states, for a level playing field in the fishing industry and for sustainable fisheries. the agency shall contribute to the effective and consistent application of the rules of the common fisheries policy through the performance of its tasks. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors confirmed in its report on the annual financial statements that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual financial statements of the agency were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i also welcome the decision of the agency to adopt a policy to prevent conflicts of interest and to carry out a risk assessment to increase the efficiency of financial transactions, which concluded that the verification and authorisation procedures for low value transactions could be combined.
written. ‒ the european fisheries control agency is responsible for the conservation of fishery resources and is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the common fisheries policy by the member states and for coordinating the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. while i agree that it is necessary to ensure the optimal use of the allocated funds in order to enable the agency to perform its functions effectively and that it is necessary to set up the agency's websites in all the official languages of the european union in order to keep the member states informed of the rules they have to implement, i consider that the way in which discharge is sought for this agency is not correct. in particular, without transparent data on the overall budget of the european union, we cannot know whether there have been significant errors in individual parts, such as the funding of the european fisheries control agency. that's why i didn't support this discharge.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014, as the budget and financial management have proved to be successful and the budget implementation rate was 99,69%. i consider that the public procurement and recruitment procedures have been correctly implemented and no significant deficiencies have been identified. improvements are needed in the prevention and fight against corruption and a higher level of transparency is needed. the deficiencies identified by the internal audit and control are not such as to prevent the discharge of the executive director of the agency and i have therefore endorsed this report.
‒ the european food safety authority is an independent union body that aims to identify and inform about food-related risks, while also acting as an adviser and promoter of new regulations. it provides scientific advice on existing or potential risks associated with food, all with a view to better protecting consumers. the agency shall be responsible for nutrition, animal health and welfare, plant health, plant protection and food and feed safety. the court of auditors' report found that there were no accounting irregularities. i supported the report, noting that the commission should provide more financial resources to the agency to enable it to act better and more efficiently in the field of food safety.
written. ‒ in 2014, eur 80 547 505 was earmarked for the work of the european food safety authority through the general budget of the european union, representing 0,056 % of the total eu budget. i note that the implementation rate is up to 98,9% and i voted to discharge the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014. in 2014, the competent authority introduced a management programme to optimise the use of human resources of its staff and experts. i am pointing out the fact that credible integrity rules are essential and that communication and access to information for the media should be paramount. i would point out that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union gives individuals the right of access to public documents and would remind that scientific rigor is best ensured by transparency and accountability of results. i welcome the improved presentation and accessibility of information and documents on the agency's website and other actions taken, such as the availability of risk assessment opinions, following the launch of the transparency initiative in 2013. i also believe that there is room for further improvement and even greater transparency in the presentation of the data and studies used in risk assessments.
written. ‒ the european food safety authority is an independent body with broad powers enabling it to monitor all stages of food production from primary production, via animal feed safety, to the supply to the consumer. it also cooperates directly with the public, informing them of the issues it deals with. it is important to note that the agency may also initiate a risk assessment on its own initiative in relation to the current state of food safety and thus warn of possible hazards at the earliest stage. the agency also provides scientific advice on genetically modified food (gmos) and their impact on food safety, which is a particularly sensitive issue and should certainly take into account the preferences of the majority of citizens in its decision-making. as regards the financial operations of the agency, i agree with the european parliament in granting the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. the final budget for the financial year 2012 amounts to eur 79 701 222, an increase of 2,11% compared to 2013.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european food safety authority (efsa) provides independent scientific advice on food-related risks to be taken into account in the development of european regulations, rules and policies, helping to protect consumers from risks in the food chain. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, gave its reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and in accordance with eu legislation. the agency has launched a project to increase the efficiency and consistency of transaction processing by implementing a centralised strategy, introducing planning, reporting and introducing processes and structures for centralised financing and public procurement that will enable the agency to perform its tasks more efficiently. i welcome the fact that as much as 74% of the agency's human resources are devoted to scientific activities, evaluation and data collection and communication, and it is important that the agency continues in this direction. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the european food safety authority's main role is to provide independent scientific advice and information on existing and emerging food-related risks. in doing so, the agency contributes significantly to the protection of consumers from risks in the food chain and to public health in general. it is therefore important to ensure that the agency's efficiency is at its highest. i support the report of my colleague mr vaughan on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014. the agency should also be able to provide the necessary technical support to the commission and the member states in the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the efsa's cooperation with the european ombudsman, in particular in the area of conflicts of interest, is also crucial to preserve the integrity of both institutions. i also welcome the agency's efforts to improve the transparency of its operations and the data it uses.
written. ‒ i believe that it is extremely important for consumers to be protected against risks in the food chain and to be informed. the european food safety authority therefore has an unquestioned role to play in providing independent scientific advice on existing and emerging risks related to food, which is taken into account when common rules are adopted in cooperation with member states and international bodies. however, i believe that the vote on discharge for this agency should be postponed until the court of auditors has approved the budget of the european union as a whole. i believe that only then can we know with certainty whether the union's financial resources have been used correctly and accurately. that's why i voted against the dismissal of the european food safety authority.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014, as the budgetary and financial management resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,04%, and a further reduction in the overall level of carry-overs was achieved. the public procurement and recruitment procedures and internal audit and control have identified a number of minor errors which do not call for discharge and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that the accounting records are in all respects in order and lawful. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report of the director of the european institute for gender equality for the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european institute for gender equality was established with the aim of promoting gender equality, including gender equality in all union and national policies resulting from them, combating discrimination on grounds of sex and raising the level of gender equality awareness of union citizens. its mission is to become the european centre of knowledge on gender equality issues. the institute's fundamental role is to promote and guarantee real and effective equality between women and men in all spheres of public and private life. the final budget of the institute for gender equality for 2014 was eur 7 340 081, a decrease of 3,08% compared to 2013. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i voted to approve the discharge for the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014. gender equality is a permanent task facing all actors of political and social life equally. although research shows that the gender gap has narrowed in recent years, it is still evident that women are paid less for the same work, are more difficult to advance and less likely to reach decision-making positions, and that additional efforts are needed to reduce the marginalisation of women in all spheres of their lives.
written. ‒ the european institute for gender equality is a union agency that supports the european union and its member states in promoting gender equality and combating gender discrimination. raising awareness of gender equality issues is an important job, and that is why i am pleased that the court of auditors has confirmed the credibility, legality and regularity of the financial statements. i welcome the institute's efforts to seek synergies by linking the procedures for the execution of certain tasks and by establishing joint services with other agencies, and i take note of the introduction of a service level agreement with the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) in the field of ex post control. i welcome the current productive cooperation between the institute and the committee on women's rights and gender equality and call for further alignment of the legislative and non-legislative priorities of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and the research conducted by the institute, also taking into account the evidence provided by the gender equality index developed by the institute. i agree with the european parliament in granting discharge to the executive director of the european institute for gender equality in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european institute for gender equality (eige) is an independent body of the european union established to contribute to and strengthen the promotion of gender equality and gender-sensitive policies in all eu policies and the national policies resulting from them. the institute achieved 95% of its planned results in 2014 and budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget execution rate of 99,04%, demonstrating that commitments were being executed on time. i regard as positive the current productive cooperation between the institute and the committee on women's rights and gender equality and would like to emphasise the fact that equality between women and men is a fundamental right, a common principle and a fundamental value of the european union. in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the institute was established with the aim of promoting and strengthening gender equality, including the promotion of gender equality in all union policies and the national policies resulting from them. it was also established to combat discrimination on grounds of sex and to raise awareness among eu citizens about gender equality. the european parliament notes in its report that the institute achieved 95% of its planned results in 2014. the amount of eur 2 167 128 was carried over from the financial year 2013, with only 1,76% of the carry-over cancelled. however, in the report parliament calls on the institute to maintain as low as possible the level of appropriations carried over to the following year in the future. grants the director of the european institute for gender equality discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014, and decides that the final annual accounts of the european institute for gender equality are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, approves the closure of the accounts of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014; i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the financial year 2014. the institute shall be responsible for the management of the financial system and for the management of the financial system. the institute should also maintain the lowest possible level of appropriations carried over to the following year in the future.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014, as no significant deficiencies have been identified that would call for discharge. the budget and financial management resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100%, indicating effective planning. the public procurement procedures were also fully implemented, while in the area of training 100% of the staff had undergone professional training. it is necessary, however, for the authority to pay greater attention to the protection of whistleblowers and to improve procedures to tackle conflicts of interest.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that the accounting records are in all respects in order and lawful. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i have endorsed the discharge report of the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is set up as an independent and advisory body of the european parliament, the council of the eu and the european commission. it shall contribute to the stability of the eu financial system by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets and by enhancing the protection of policyholders, beneficiaries and pensioners, and shall act independently, objectively and in the interest of the eu in the performance of its tasks. the authority has also received a number of letters from the european parliament and the council, including from the european commission, which have been sent to the european parliament and the council. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme. given that the court of auditors stated that it had received reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the main transactions were legal and regular, i supported the discharge for the agency for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european parliament, having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, has given a discharge to the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority are in the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of the accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014. i regret that the authority has not kept the union legislator fully and sufficiently informed of all the details of its ongoing work. i am pleased to note that all necessary or very important measures recommended in previous internal audit service audits were implemented by the end of 2014. i therefore welcome the decision of the european parliament to grant the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is a decentralised eu body that operates within the european system of financial supervision with the aim of protecting the public interest and contributing to the stability and efficiency of the financial system in the areas of insurance, reinsurance and pensions. the court of auditors stated in its report that it has reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are in accordance with eu rules and legislation. the role of the authority in promoting a common supervisory regime in the internal market is crucial to guaranteeing financial stability, a more connected, transparent, efficient and secure financial market and greater consumer protection in the union. i therefore approve the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the role of the authority in promoting a common supervisory regime across the internal market is technical in nature and is essential to ensure financial stability, a more connected, transparent and efficient financial market. in addition, it should allow for a higher level of consumer protection in the union. the european parliament in its report advises the authority to improve the management of external contracts in the future and to align it with the principles of sound and sound budgetary management in order to maximise it capacity. the european parliament therefore gives a discharge to the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014, and decides that the final annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority are to be drawn up in the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. furthermore, it approves the closure of the accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014. i think this report is good and i support it completely.
written. ‒ the combined financing of eiopa, which relies to a large extent on contributions from the national competent authorities, is, according to the conclusions of this report, inflexible and creates a burden and a potential threat to its independence, especially given that 60% of its budget is financed by the competent national supervisory authorities. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the european investment bank in the capital of the union. in some cases, documents were only forwarded to the union legislator after their contents had been leaked to the public, which is unacceptable in any organisation, let alone in an agency with competence in the european union, and i therefore voted against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014, as it gives a discharge to the director of the institute and accordingly allows the institute to continue its work without any disruption. the budgetary and financial management has proved to be successful and no significant deficiencies or irregularities have been detected. a detailed audit of internal procedures has also been carried out, which i fully support. the institute has faced instability at the management level since its inception and there is therefore a need to improve the implementation of the employment policy. on the other hand, the revision of the code of conduct further raises the level of transparency of the institute, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting documentation. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology for the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established in 2008 on the initiative of the european commission as an autonomous eu body to promote world-class innovation, sustainable growth and enhance eu competitiveness through the integration of the european innovation area. the eit shall develop master's and doctoral programmes in cooperation with the scientific community and innovators and their partners. the aim is to create its own label of excellence among european higher education institutions that will mark the eit colleges as outstanding for their quality and innovative outcomes. the eit aims to create the right conditions for the development of entrepreneurship by fostering a new way of thinking about entrepreneurship and risk-taking by supporting entrepreneurship through activities such as the eit entrepreneur roundtable and the eit awards. the final budget of the institute for the financial year 2014 was eur 233 115 437, representing an increase of 65,54% compared to 2013. the total union contribution to the institute's budget for 2014 amounts to eur 169 807 303, representing an increase of 81,69% compared to 2013. i have supported the european institute of innovation and technology clearance as the court of auditors, in its report on the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, gave reasonable assurance that the institute's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
‒ having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the report of the committee on budgetary control, the european parliament has given a discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of the eit's accounts for the financial year 2014. i note with concern that the court of auditors' report states that, although kics should develop strategies for financial sustainability, they are still, to this day, in their fifth year of existence, totally dependent on the financial resources of the institute and its partners. i would commend the fact that the institute has carried out a thorough review of its internal procedures, tenders and templates to ensure that they are fully aligned with the relevant public procurement rules, with particular emphasis on good planning and needs assessment. i welcome the decision of the european parliament to grant the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) helps businesses and education and research bodies work together to create a stimulating environment for innovation and entrepreneurship in europe. the court of auditors has expressed in its report a reasonable assurance that the institute's annual accounts are reliable and that the related transactions are in accordance with eu rules and legislation. the institute has carried out a detailed review of its internal procedures, tenders and templates to ensure that they are fully aligned with the applicable public procurement rules, with a particular focus on good planning and needs assessment. i welcome the activities undertaken by the institute to reduce high staff turnover, in particular the fact that it has made improvements in the management of vacancies and the fact that it has established an evaluation and reclassification system in autumn 2014 to provide its staff with more opportunities for advancement and to strengthen the level of middle management. in view of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) promotes innovation in the countries of the european union and helps businesses and educational and research bodies to jointly create an enabling environment for innovation and entrepreneurship in europe. the eit contributes to the eu's ability to innovate and compete with foreign competition, thereby creating jobs and wealth. i support the report by mr vaughan on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014. according to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the eit for the financial year 2014, the institute's annual accounts are reliable and the related transactions are fully regular and in line with eu legislation. i also find it positive that the institute, in order to reduce costs and promote best practices in public procurement, participates in a number of interinstitutional public procurement procedures run by the european commission.
written. ‒ i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors has also found that the commission's annual report on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe (the 'cfsp') is a valuable tool for the union's macro-financial assistance. the institute also delays operational verification of what has been achieved by the activities and the annual kic business plans continue to contain an inappropriate definition of what is to be achieved by the activities and there is no clear link between what is planned to be achieved by the activities and the eligible costs by partners and cost categories. the court has identified cases where the total amount of the institute's grants has been paid out, even though some of the objectives set out in the business plan have not been achieved, which is not negligible and which requires additional checks on the operations of the european institute of innovation and technology.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014, because the budgetary and financial management was carried out in accordance with the rules and resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94,32%. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the list of persons subject to administrative sanctions in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 in order to allow the agency to carry out its tasks. i support the improvement of the recruitment and resource planning procedures that have been undertaken and the activities that have been launched to raise the level of transparency of the agency's operations. the commission has also identified a number of other areas where the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounts of the european medicines agency. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report of the executive director of the ema for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the main task of the european medicines agency is to protect and promote human and animal health through the supervision of medicines used for medical and veterinary purposes. one of the most important activities is the post-authorisation surveillance of medicinal products, in order to receive safety reports from the union and beyond, and to coordinate actions contributing to the quality and safety of medicinal products. the agency shall also examine certificates for medical devices as part of the guidelines issued by the world health organisation. the second activity is the inspection supervision of clinical practice, laboratory work, production and certification of medical devices, and the quality control and handling of defects in these products. the financial statements show that the final budget of the european medicines agency for 2014 was eur 282 474 000, representing an increase of 12,29% compared to 2013. the union budget shall constitute 12,53% of the budget of the agency. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the european parliament has given a discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european medicines agency were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and it authorised the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014. i note that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94,32%. however, i regret that this represents a decrease of 2.44% compared to the previous year. i would commend the fact that 580 out of 599 vacancies were filled by the end of 2014 and that the agency employed 210 contract staff, seconded national experts and staff recruited through employment agencies. in the light of the above, i welcome the decision of the european parliament to discharge the executive director of the european medicines agency from the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, although i consider that the monitoring of the effects of medicines on the human body is not sufficiently covered.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european medicines agency (ema) is a decentralised body of the european union whose main task is to protect and promote public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicines in human and veterinary medicine. the agency shall be responsible for the scientific evaluation of applications for authorisation to place medicinal products on the european market. the court of auditors stated in its report that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are sound and in accordance with eu legislation. the commission has also received a number of letters from the european parliament and the council requesting the european parliament to provide further information on the implementation of the budget. the commission has also identified a number of deficiencies in the management controls, but an action plan has been established and implemented to address this issue. i welcome the agency's plans to improve its recruitment and resource planning processes in order to increase the level of human resources allocated to operational tasks. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the main task of the european medicines agency (ema), based in london, is to protect and promote public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicines in human and veterinary medicine. the ema is, inter alia, responsible for the scientific evaluation of applications for authorisation to place medicinal products on the european market. i support the report of my colleague mr vaughan on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014, has found that the accounts of the agency are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level and nature of the transfers in 2014 that would be consistent with the financial rules. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni).
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014, as the necessary measures have been taken to take account of the recommendations of the 2013 discharge. the budget implementation rate of 99,62% indicates that the budget and financial management was consistent with the objectives set. i support the revised policy on conflict of interest prevention and management that the centre has undertaken. the internal audit and controls did not find any significant deficiencies and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the annual accounting documentation. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report of the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the financial report showed that the final budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (the centre) for the financial year 2014 was eur 15 675 036, a decrease of 3,88% compared to 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this decision. the court's report shows that the rate of committed appropriations carried over in 2015 was 26% (eur 673 534) for title ii, and confirms that those carry-overs are mainly related to the acceleration of the implementation of the centre's multiannual ict strategy. i supported this discharge as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
‒ the european parliament, having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, has given a discharge to the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and it authorised the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. i would like to commend the fact that the centre's 2014 annual financial reports contain detailed information on the corrective actions taken by the centre following the observations and recommendations made by the court of justice, the competent budgetary authority and the internal audit service of the european commission. i welcome the decision of the european parliament to discharge the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction from the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) is the european union's focal point for information on drug issues, whose role is to collect, analyse and provide objective, reliable and comparable information on drugs and drug addiction, thereby enabling the public to build a clear, scientifically based picture of the drug problem at european level. the court of auditors stated in its report that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular in all material respects. the annual financial reports of the centre for 2014 shall contain details of the corrective actions taken by the centre on the basis of previous observations and recommendations. i welcome the acceleration of the implementation of the ict strategy, as well as the measures taken by the centre to further reduce the need to adapt the technical specifications of tenders and to ensure that all parties concerned are informed in a more effective manner of the possible need for such adaptations. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the centre's 2014 annual financial reports contain details of the corrective actions taken by the centre following the observations and recommendations. the centre has made efforts to implement the recommendations of the court of auditors and the internal audit service in order to improve its management and internal control systems. in addition, the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. having regard to that report, as well as to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the european parliament adopts a report giving a discharge to the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014, and approves the closure of the books of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. i support this report.
written. ‒ the implementation of the multiannual ict strategy has recently been accelerated following the transfer of appropriations from the salary line for salaries, in line with the decision of the court of justice of the european union not to adjust the salaries of union officials for 2011, 2012 and 2013. the centre should therefore provide an explanation as to the operational reasons why the money has not been reimbursed to the union budget. in addition, it needs to promote procedures and practices that seek to protect the financial interests of the union and to actively contribute to a results-oriented discharge procedure. in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that article, this regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014, as there are no shortcomings or deficiencies that would prevent discharge to be given to the agency. the budgetary and financial management, and the procurement and recruitment procedures shall comply with the principles of consistency and efficiency. in addition, positive steps are visible in the implementation of the policy on the prevention of conflicts of interest, although the level of transparency of internal processes needs to be further increased. i fully support the intention to establish stronger synergies with other agencies and institutions and therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors in its report on the annual financial statements of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 stated that the annual financial statements are reliable and lawful. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report to the executive director for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the union and the member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to shipping. emsa is also competent in the area of oil spill prevention and response, and in the area of long-range surveillance, identification and tracking of ships. emsa carries out technical inspections, provides maritime information services and responds to marine pollution. according to emsa's financial statements for the financial year 2014, the budget amounted to eur 52 403 276, a decrease of 9,37% compared to 2013. the rate of implementation of the budget was 94,78% and the rate of payments was 93,77%. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the union state aid rules to the measures provided for in article 108 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and in article 108 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the court of auditors found in its report that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, and it supported this finding in the light of all the findings and reports submitted.
‒ the european parliament, having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, has given a discharge to the executive director of the european maritime safety agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of the accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. i regret that the implementation of the 2014 commitment is below the commission's target of 95%, which is why the commission invited the agency to provide reasons for not reaching the 95% target. i call on the agency to improve budget implementation and bring that value within the limits set by the commission. i would like to commend the fact that, according to the stakeholder survey conducted by the agency in 2014, the agency is considered to be highly professional and to have the technical expertise necessary to fulfil its mission. i therefore welcome the decision of the european parliament to grant the executive director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the european union and the member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to shipping. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual financial statements were reliable and that the underlying transactions were regular and in compliance with eu legislation. the level and nature of the transfer of funds during 2014 remained within the limits of the agency's financial rules, according to the agency's annual activity report. the agency's fraud detection and prevention strategy, developed in line with the guidance of the european anti-fraud office, was adopted in november 2015. the agency should be able to take part in the work of the european parliament and the council in the preparation of the annual report on the activities of the agency. in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the member states and the eu in the development and implementation of union legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to shipping. the emsa is also responsible for oil spill prevention and response, and for the surveillance, identification and long-range tracking of ships. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. the agency's annual activity report shows that the level of financial transfers in 2014 did not exceed the limit set by the agency in its financial rules. the agency shall also have a well-developed fraud prevention and detection strategy, which is fully in line with the european anti-fraud office guidelines. the agency shall also make additional efforts to create synergies with other agencies.
written. ‒ i am concerned, particularly in the context of the new legal framework of the european maritime safety agency, that the implementation of the obligation for 2014 is below the commission's target of 95%, which is why the commission has invited the agency to set out the reasons why the target has not been reached and to call for improvements in the implementation of the budget and bring this value within the limits set by the commission. furthermore, at the time of the audit, there were no formal and documented processes for the drafting of the annual report, which leads to the risk that certain stakeholders involved in the process may not be fully aware of their responsibilities, and therefore i have not supported this discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014, as the implementation rate is 100%. such as directly indicates good financial and budgetary management. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial situation of the bank has improved. on the other hand, recruitment procedures require better implementation and clarity, and greater transparency in internal processes is necessary. the approval of the discharge will allow the agency to continue the work started.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the agency's accounting records. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i have endorsed the discharge report of the executive director of the agency for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european union agency for network and data security was established to help the eu institutions, member states and the business community to identify data security problems and find appropriate solutions that will ensure a high level of network and data security. the agency shall also provide technical assistance to the commission in the development and updating of legislation in this area. the financial report showed that the final budget of the european union agency for network and data security for the financial year 2014 was eur 9 708 297, representing an increase of 0,39% compared to 2013. the union contribution to the budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was 8 820 666, representing an increase of 0,05 % compared to 2013. the court of auditors' report shows that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular and that the agency's operations are legal, orderly and regular. the court of auditors finds that the agency has adopted internal policies to improve the cost-effectiveness and environmental integrity of its equipment and has taken an important step towards meeting both requirements, adopting a 'paperless' platform for work tracking and internal document storage, and notes with satisfaction that the agency has abolished almost all forms of paper tracking. because of the progress you've made and the positive results of your analysis, i've endorsed this discharge.
‒ the european parliament, having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the report of the committee on budgetary control, has given a discharge to the executive director of the european union agency for network and information security in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of the accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014. i note that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 100% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 85,61%. i therefore welcome the decision of parliament to discharge the executive director of the european union agency for network and information security from the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) is a centre of expertise on cybersecurity in europe that helps the european union and its member states to be better equipped and prepared to prevent, detect and respond to information security problems. the court of auditors, in its report, expressed its reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 100% and a payment appropriation execution rate of 85,61%. the agency faces challenges in attracting and retaining qualified staff, mainly due to the location of the office in crete, where international education is a challenge, and i consider it positive that the agency has concluded a service level agreement with each private school attended by the children of the staff of the office in athens, given that there are no european schools there. in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ based on the recommendations of the 2013 discharge of the agency and in accordance with the lease agreement between the greek authorities, the agency and the lessor, the rent for the offices in athens is paid by the greek authorities. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the lease. the agency should be able to provide the necessary technical assistance to the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure the proper functioning of the agency. however, according to the agency's annual report and the results of the court of auditors' audit, the level and nature of the transfers of funds during 2013 remained within the limits of the financial rules. having regard to the above, the european parliament gives a discharge to the executive director of the european union agency for network and information security in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. notes that the final annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, and that the closure of the accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 is approved; i fully support the report of the european parliament.
written. ‒ in accordance with the lease agreement for the offices of the european union agency for network and information security between the greek authorities, the agency and the lessor, the rent for the offices in athens is paid by the greek authorities, but it is worrying and unacceptable that there is a continuous delay in the payment of the rent, which continued in 2014 and 2015 and poses significant reputational and financial risks and risks to the continuity of the agency's business, as detailed in this report. the agency received a warning that the lessor of the athens office would be litigating, and in line with this knowledge, the commission, the agency and the greek authorities should be encouraged to find a solution to this issue in order to significantly reduce the risks to which the agency is exposed. as such omissions are unacceptable for an agency under the competence of the european union, which should be an example to others in how to operate properly, i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014, as the discharge to the executive director of the agency allows the work started to continue. the court of auditors' report did not identify any major shortcomings, but showed that the budgetary and financial management was successful and that the budget implementation rate was 97,34%. the commission has also concluded that the union industry is in a difficult situation and that the union industry is facing a serious threat of material injury.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 established the regularity of the accounting records. the commission has also received a letter from the european railway agency (era) on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european railway agency was set up with the aim of establishing common technical and operating rules to harmonise the operation of all national railways within the european union. the agency shall also be responsible for designing and proposing a common system for the certification, identification and registration of rolling stock of flexible vehicles and for issuing recommendations on the competence of the staff managing the rolling stock. the financial report showed that the final budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 716 600, a decrease of 0,55 % compared to 2013, and that the average execution rate for commitment appropriations, including transfers, was 97,34% and 96,87% respectively for payment appropriations. the entire budget of the agency shall come from the union budget. the increase in the carry-overs for titles ii (24,53%) and iii (37,93%) compared to the previous year has been criticised. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the agency's annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in the light of the findings of the court of auditors, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ the european parliament, having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, has given a discharge to the executive director of the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european railway agency were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and authorised the closure of the accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014. i call on the agency to reduce as much as possible the amount of transferred earmarked appropriations in the future in order to strengthen its transparency and accountability. i welcome the role of the agency in monitoring the development, testing and implementation of the european rail traffic management system (ertms) and in evaluating concrete ertms projects, and therefore the european parliament's decision to discharge the executive director of the european railway agency from the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european railway agency (era) contributes to the integration of european rail systems by increasing the safety of trains and enabling them to cross national borders without stopping. the court of auditors stated in its report that it has reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the related transactions are in accordance with eu rules and legislation. the agency's strategy for combating fraud, submitted to the management board in november 2014, was adopted in march 2015. the agency shall also, as from 2012, have a policy on the prevention of conflicts of interest for its staff and seconded national experts. the use of two sites for the activities of the agency is a problem that needs to be addressed in order to restore value for taxpayers' money and operational efficiency. the agency should also cooperate with member states to increase the number and quality of railway projects. i welcome the fact that the agency has revised its selection procedures and introduced a number of improvements to its recruitment procedures to ensure transparency and equal treatment of candidates. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the european parliament took note of the activities undertaken by the agency in relation to budgetary and financial management, and in relation to commitments and transfers. furthermore, the agency revised its selection procedures and introduced a number of improvements to the recruitment procedures to ensure transparency and equal treatment of candidates, introduced ex ante controls to independently monitor the conduct of selection procedures and adopted a decision allowing operational staff to become permanent staff. there is a possibility that operational staff may be employed on a permanent basis. on the basis of those observations, the european parliament in its report gives a discharge to the executive director of the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. in addition, it approves the closure of the accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i condemn the fact that the use of two sites for the performance of its activities exposes the european railway agency to additional costs and unnecessary waste of european taxpayers' money, which is unacceptable and we should all put pressure on all agencies to solve this problem, while avoiding indirect costs such as 'lost' working hours due to travel or additional administrative work. in addition to unnecessary costs, the agency should also work on improving transparency, one of the basic rules for any agency as declarations of financial interests of some members of the management board as well as some of the management staff are still pending. for all of the above, i did not support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and capital markets authority for the financial year 2014, because the budgetary and financial management can be defined as successful, as indicated by the budget implementation rate of 98,89%. the authority has also provided a number of examples of the use of the term 'contracting authority' in the context of the authority's recruitment procedures. i also support effective resolution of late payments and efforts to preserve the security and stability of the financial sector. however, it is necessary to improve the reliability of accounting records and to improve the legality and regularity of all transactions.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that the annual accounting documentation is legal and regular. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report of the executive director of the european securities and markets authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european securities and markets authority is an independent body of the european union and part of the european system of financial supervisors (esfs), and does not receive instructions for its work from any other eu body, institution or agency. esma's role is to contribute to the stability of the financial system in the union by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets and by enhancing investor protection. the financial report shows that the final budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014 was eur 33 267 143, representing an increase of 18,02% compared to 2013 due to the additional tasks entrusted to esma. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i therefore supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and capital markets authority for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european parliament, having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to the opinion of the committee on budgetary control and the economic and monetary policy committee, has given a discharge to the executive director of the european securities and markets authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. i note that the budget monitoring during the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 98,89%, an increase of 5,71% compared to 2013. the authority has also concluded that the authority's assessment of the impact of the aid on the financial situation of the beneficiary is not sufficient to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i regret that the authority has not kept the union legislator fully and sufficiently informed of all the details of its ongoing work. in view of the high rate of implementation of the budget, i welcome the decision of the european parliament to grant the executive director of the european securities and capital markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european securities and markets authority (esma) is an independent body of the european union whose purpose is to enhance investor protection and promote stable and orderly financial markets. the court of auditors in its report gave reasonable assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and in accordance with eu law. the authority has also taken steps to ensure that the annual accounts of the authority are kept up to date and that the annual accounts of the authority are kept up to date. esma has defined a conflict of interest policy for its staff and has taken various measures to address the problem of late payments. in view of the fact that the european system of financial supervision is still in the process of being established, the tasks entrusted to the authority, as well as the tasks envisaged, require an appropriate number and qualification of staff and sufficient funding to enable adequate supervision. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european securities and capital markets authority ('the authority') for the financial year 2014 was eur 33 267 143, representing an increase of 18,02% compared to 2013. this is due to the additional tasks entrusted to the supervisory board. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. the objective is to provide a satisfactory degree of control. the authority has not provided any evidence that the authority has been able to demonstrate that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market. the european parliament therefore adopts a report giving discharge to the executive director of the european securities and capital markets authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. notes that the final annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, and that the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014 is approved; i fully support this report.
written. ‒ this report shows that the european securities and markets authority has not kept the union legislator fully and sufficiently informed of all the details of its ongoing work. in addition, there have been several cases where information of the authority that was not provided to parliament has been made available to member states or stakeholders representing third parties, which calls for the authority to take effective measures to address those maladministration and to treat parliament and the member states equally, both in terms of the timing of the publication of the information and in terms of its content. in view of these irregularities, i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014 because the implementation rate of the budget is extremely high, i.e. 99,90%, and because the recommendations made in the 2013 discharge were taken into account. the level and nature of the transfer of funds during 2014 also remained within the limits of the financial rules, while the employment policy was implemented in line with the objectives of the foundation. it is necessary, however, to raise awareness of the conflict of interest policy and to enhance those procedures aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting documentation. the commission has also received a letter from the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european training foundation (etf) is an agency of the european union that assists developing countries in their transition to exploit their human capital potential through the reform of education, training and employment systems in the context of the external relations policy with the eu. the financial statements show that the final budget of the foundation for the financial year 2014 was eur 20 158 053, an increase of 0,07 % compared to 2013. the total budget of the foundation shall be derived from the union budget. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the foundation for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i find it useful that the basic level of information on the foundation's websites is set in line with the objectives of its communication activities so that interested citizens can easily access general information, specific activities and work results. it is also an important element of european foreign policy and aims to help those most in need young people in developing countries and their social inclusion. this is why i support the foundation's work so far and hope that in the future it will help to solve today's key problems, improve the quality of life in third countries and reduce the need for the risky migration we face today.
‒ the european parliament, having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, has dismissed the director of the european training foundation as of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european training foundation were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and authorised the closure of the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014. i note that budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,90%, which shows that commitments were implemented in a timely manner and that the payment appropriations execution rate was high at 94,80%. i invite the foundation to promote procedures and practices that seek to protect the financial interests of the union and to actively contribute to a results-oriented discharge procedure. i welcome the decision of the european parliament to discharge the director of the european training foundation in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the measures taken on the basis of the recommendations of the 2013 discharge have been implemented. the foundation has carried out emergency maintenance of the premises and assumed direct control of water, gas and electricity following the conclusion of the foundation headquarters agreement in march 2013 with the competent authorities of the piedmont region in italy. in addition, since 2008, the foundation has sought to reduce the number of staff members in central administrative positions, while increasing the number of experts. on the basis of such performance, the european parliament in its report discharges the director of the european training foundation from the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014 and finds that the final annual accounts of the european training foundation are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. furthermore, it approves the closure of the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014. i therefore support the report.
written. ‒ the measures taken on the basis of the recommendations of the 2013 discharge have been implemented. the foundation has carried out emergency maintenance of the premises and has taken direct control of water, gas and electricity following the conclusion of the foundation's headquarters agreement in march 2013 with the competent authorities of the piedmont region in italy. in addition, since 2008, the foundation has sought to reduce the number of staff members in central administrative positions, while increasing the number of experts. on the basis of such performance, the european parliament in its report discharges the director of the european training foundation from the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014 and finds that the final annual accounts of the european training foundation are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. furthermore, it approves the closure of the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014. the european training foundation should, like most other agencies, do more to raise awareness of the conflict of interest policy among its staff, in addition to the ongoing work on general awareness raising and on making integrity and transparency a must in recruitment procedures and performance reviews. the foundation should also improve procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union and actively contribute to a results-oriented discharge procedure.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014, as the efforts made to ensure efficient and effective budgetary and financial management contributed to a budget implementation rate of 99,32%. however, it is necessary to improve procedures related to the prevention and handling of conflicts of interest and to increase transparency. internal control and audit have not identified any major deficiencies or errors and i therefore endorse this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors concluded in its report that the annual financial statements are reliable and that the related transactions are legal and regular. the commission shall be assisted by the european data protection supervisor, who shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget.
the european parliament and the council shall be informed of the progress of the work of the european data protection supervisor and of the progress of the work of the european data protection board. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the financial report showed that the budget of eu-lisa for the financial year 2014 was eur 59 380 000, representing a decrease of 3,% compared to 2013. the agency shall be fully financed from the budget of the union. the court of auditors' finding shows that the agency's work is legal, orderly and regular. in order to ensure the consistency of the data reported by eu-lisa to the european parliament and the council, the commission should be able to request the european parliament and the council to provide the data referred to in paragraph 1 to the european parliament and the council.
‒ the european parliament, having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, has authorised the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice to implement the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of the accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014. i encourage the agency to do more to raise awareness of the conflict of interest policy among its staff in addition to the ongoing work on general awareness raising. i am deeply concerned about the high cancellation rate (26%) of commitments carried over to 2014 and welcome the fact that the agency recognises the need to improve its budget management. i welcome the decision of parliament to grant the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the european parliament and the council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this directive by 31 december of the following year. the court of auditors, in its report, expressed its reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is of particular importance that the agency increase the awareness of its staff on the conflict of interest policy, in addition to ongoing awareness-raising activities, and that the agency work towards making integrity and transparency a central element in its recruitment processes and performance reviews. the agency has improved its capacity to control and implement transfers and i expect the volume and rate of redemptions to decrease in 2015. in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the agency became financially independent in 2013. the agency should be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the financial year in question to cover its administrative expenditure. by the time it took its decision on those transfers, the agency had not yet filled all its envisaged posts and its capacity to manage the budget in certain areas was limited. the agency has subsequently improved its capacity to control and implement transfers. in its report, the european parliament gives a discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. as regards the final annual financial report of the agency, the format is as set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, and the closure of the accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014 is hereby approved. i support this report.
written. ‒ i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014. the agency has not complied with last year's recommendation of parliament to adopt policies to prevent and manage conflicts of interest and i reiterate my call on the agency to correct those errors and to publish the cvs and declarations of financial interests requested by parliament last year and in line with the guidelines published by the commission in december 2013, i.e. to adopt and publish those policies as well as cvs and declarations of financial interests (instead of declarations of absence of conflicts of interest) of its director, chair of the management board, board members and national experts. the agency should work towards improvements in the prevention of and fight against corruption, starting from better public access to documents and stricter rules on conflicts of interest, the introduction or strengthening of transparency registers, to providing sufficient resources for law enforcement measures and enhanced cooperation between member states and cooperation with relevant third countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014, given that the recommendations of the 2013 discharge were taken into account and that the implementation rate was 98,65%. the commission notes that the financial corrections for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015 were made in accordance with the provisions of the staff regulations. in addition, no situations of conflict of interest have been identified, although the anti-corruption system needs to be improved. i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting records of the european agency for safety and health at work. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report of the director of the agency for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european agency for safety and health at work was established in 1994 with the aim of achieving safer, healthier and more productive working conditions in europe. the agency collects and analyses information to contribute to improving the health and safety situation at work in europe and operates in four areas: surveillance, the dissemination of good occupational safety practice, research on occupational health and safety and the agency's systems and programmes. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 17 256 026, representing a decrease of 0,17% compared to 2013. the union contribution to the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 14 987 210, representing a decrease of 4,02% compared to 2013. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014, gave its reasonable assurance that the audited accounts of the agency were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the amount of eur 4 384 922 was carried over from the financial year 2013, with only 1,96 of the appropriations carried over from that year being cancelled. the agency rationalized its expenditure in 2014 and, in view of the above, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the european parliament, having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, has discharged the director of the european agency for safety and health at work from the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and it authorised the closure of the accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014. i call for a general improvement in the prevention and fight against corruption through a holistic approach. i welcome the active cooperation between the agency and the relevant member states' authorities and commend the agency's work on the development of an online interactive risk assessment tool and its work in the healthy workplaces campaign to better prevent risks and promote sustainable and healthy workplaces. i welcome the decision of parliament to discharge the director of the european agency for safety and health at work in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) is working to make europe's workplaces safer, healthier and more productive, for the benefit of businesses, employees and governments. the agency shall promote a risk prevention culture in order to improve working conditions in europe. the court of auditors, in its report, gave its reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. the commission has also received a number of letters from the european parliament and the council requesting the european parliament to provide further information on the implementation of the budget. the agency's staff and the agency's staff shall be subject to the same rules as those laid down in the agency's staff policy on conflicts of interest. i also welcome the active cooperation between the agency and the relevant member states' authorities, as well as the agency's work on the development of an online interactive risk assessment tool and its work in the healthy workplaces campaign to better prevent risks and promote sustainable and healthy workplaces. i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the agency agreed in its 2014 annual management plan on measures to further improve the effectiveness of the internal control standards in several areas. a multiannual action plan has been prepared and the director of the agency adopted an internal control policy in june 2014 which includes a specific procedure for self-assessment of standards. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the procedures and procedures for the exchange of information between the agency and the member states. the european parliament therefore discharges the director of the european agency for safety and health at work in its report for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. approves the closure of the accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014 in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report; i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i voted against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014. the existing procedures related to the prevention of conflicts of interest for the staff of the agency are still under review, but the agency should complete that procedure as soon as possible and inform the discharge authority of the results. the agency should do more to raise awareness of the conflict of interest policy among its staff and to make integrity and transparency a must in its recruitment and performance review processes. the agency's annual report could play an important role in respecting the rules on transparency, accountability and integrity and the agency should therefore include a regular chapter on those components in its annual report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014 because of the sound management of the budget and the financial management. in addition, it is necessary to raise the level of transparency and accountability and to strengthen the principle of integrity. i consider that by granting discharge the agency can continue its work without disruption and i have therefore endorsed this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors concluded in its report that the annual financial statements of euroatom are reliable, lawful and regular. the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr jean-claude juncker, on behalf of the european union, on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the euratom supply agency was established with the aim of ensuring a regular and unbiased supply of nuclear fuel to european users. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the union's nuclear safety and security policy, including the implementation of the union's nuclear security policy. i believe that europe should build its future on renewable and sustainable energy sources, which nuclear energy is not. i believe that with the end of the life of existing nuclear power plants, there will be no new ones built and then there will be no need for an agency like this. the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 104 000, the same amount as in 2013. the court of auditors' report states that the agency's annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. notes with concern that the agency's internal audit function has been disrupted by the failure of the internal audit function to report on the implementation of the internal audit function; notes with concern that the agency's internal audit function has been disrupted by the failure of the internal audit function to report on the implementation of the internal audit function;
‒ the european parliament, having regard to the final annual financial report of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014 and the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014, together with the agency's replies, has granted the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the euratom supply agency were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, and it authorised the closure of the accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014. i note that the budget monitoring during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 91,08%, down by 3,92% compared to 2013; however, i found that the payment appropriations execution rate was 81,13%, an increase of 21,91% compared to 2013. i welcome the decision of the parliament to grant the director-general of the euroatom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the euratom supply agency (esa) was established with the aim of ensuring a regular and unbiased supply of nuclear fuel to european users and focuses on strengthening the security of supply and sustainability of the nuclear industry in the union. the court of auditors, in its report, gave its reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were in accordance with eu rules and legislation in all material respects. the budget monitoring during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 91,08%, down by 3,92%, compared to 2013, while the payment appropriations execution rate was 81,13%, an increase of 21,91% compared to 2013. i consider it positive that the agency implements an appropriate risk management and control strategy and has taken all necessary risk assessment and mitigation measures to align its internal control system with the court of auditors' requirements. i therefore support this report.
‒ the agency has provided in its annual financial reports an estimate of the costs of administrative services paid directly from the commission's budget. the european parliament shall adopt a report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014. it states that the annual reports of the union institutions and agencies could play an important role in respecting the rules on transparency, accountability and integrity and therefore, on the basis of this example, invites the union institutions to include a chapter on those components in their annual reports. in its report, the ep found that the agency implements an appropriate risk management and control strategy and notes that the agency has taken all necessary risk assessment and mitigation measures to align its internal control system with the court of auditors' requirements. in the light of the above, it gives the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. notes that the final annual accounts of the euratom supply agency are in the format annexed to the court of auditors' report and, finally, approves the closure of the agency's accounts for the same financial year; i support this report.
written. ‒ i did not support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014 because i believe that the european union agencies need to improve their operations in many segments. in the first place, they should work on an overall improvement in the prevention of corruption in the public sector, starting with greater public access to documents and stricter rules on conflicts of interest. the annual report on the union institutions and agencies could play an important role in respecting the rules on transparency, accountability and integrity and the union institutions, including the euratom supply agency, should be invited to include a model chapter on those components in their annual reports.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014, as the implementation rate of the budget was 99,66% and no major deficiencies or shortcomings were identified. i support the new application for the management of the selection and recruitment process and the launch of the job analysis using a common methodology for union agencies. i support the discharge of the foundation as it allows its unhindered continuation of work.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting documentation. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report to the director of eurofound for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions was established to contribute to the planning and development of better living and working conditions in europe. the foundation provides governments, employees, trade unions and the commission with knowledge and advice drawn from independent comparative research. the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014 was eur 20 774 000, representing an increase of 0,73% compared to 2013. the court of auditors shall, in its report on the annual accounts of the foundation, state that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the foundation's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i am pleased to note that the high overall level of committed appropriations indicates that all commitments were implemented in a timely manner. the introduction of a new online application for the management of the selection and recruitment procedure, adopted and implemented during 2014, will allow the integration of a large part of the procedure, previously managed through several electronic and paper systems, into a single workflow, thus saving time. for all of the above, i supported this waiver.
the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014 and the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014, together with the foundation's replies, has granted the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of the accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014. i welcome the corrective measures taken by the foundation following concerns raised by the court of auditors regarding the registration of tangible and fixed assets, and the introduction of a new online application for the management of the selection and recruitment process, adopted and implemented during 2014. i welcome the decision of parliament to grant the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) provides research-based data and knowledge sharing to stimulate the development of social and work-related policies. the court of auditors, in its report, expressed its reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the foundation for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important that the foundation does more to raise awareness of the conflict of interest policy among its staff and to make integrity and transparency a must in recruitment procedures and performance reviews. i welcome the introduction of a new online application for the management of the selection and recruitment process which will allow the majority of the process, which was previously managed through several electronic and paper systems, to be consolidated into a single workflow, which could save time. the foundation has successfully implemented a four-year work programme and has done important work in three european surveys: the european quality of life survey, the european working conditions survey and the european enterprise survey, which is a major contribution to assessing the impact of the crisis on working and living conditions. i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the foundation has successfully acted on the recommendations of the 2013 discharge for the registration of tangible and fixed assets, as noted by the court of auditors. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. this resulted in a budget execution rate of 99,66%. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to achieve the objective of common interest. taking into account the above comments, the european parliament in its report gives a discharge to the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014. i support this report.
written. - i voted against this discharge. the transparency, rational and targeted use of budgetary resources should be kept high on the priority list and i therefore believe that it is important to obtain transparent information on the overall budget before approving the discharge for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. therefore, i believe that the vote on this discharge should be postponed.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2014 because the recommendations of the 2013 discharge were taken into account and the budget and financial management proved to be successful, with an execution rate of 99,82%. i support the comprehensive public procurement plan and the improved recruitment process. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
written. ‒ the court of auditors concluded in its report that eurojust's annual financial statements are reliable and that the related transactions are legal and regular. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report of the executive director of eurojust for the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ eurojust is an eu body established by a council decision with the aim of improving judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime. it has been operating since 2003 and is based in the hague. eurojust shall assist by cooperating and coordinating with national investigation and prosecution authorities. there are 1,500 such cross-border cases a year. eurojust helps to build mutual trust by bridging the various legal systems and traditions known in the eu. eurojust shall facilitate the execution of requests for cooperation and the mutual recognition of legal instruments by addressing legal problems rapidly and identifying the competent authorities in the member states. the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2014 was eur 33 667 239, representing an increase of 4,04% compared to 2013. the entire budget of eurojust shall be financed from the union budget. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. eurojust has reduced the number of budget lines for its 2015 budget to address weaknesses in budget planning and execution and i hope that this practice will continue for the 2016 and 2017 budgets. i supported the eurojust discharge for the financial year 2014 because i consider that it is precisely this instrument that is necessary for the administration of justice in the territory of the european union. serious crimes must not go unpunished, first and foremost, for the sake of the victims and their families.
written. ‒ having regard to the final annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014 and the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014, together with eurojust's replies, the european parliament has granted the executive director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2014. it also concluded that eurojust's final annual accounts were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of eurojust's accounts for the financial year 2014. i am pleased to note that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,82%, an increase of 0,21% compared to 2013. in view of the above, i welcome the decision of parliament to grant the executive director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european union office for judicial cooperation (eurojust) supports judicial cooperation and cooperation between national competent authorities in the fight against serious organised crime affecting several eu member states. the court of auditors stated in its report that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are in accordance with eu rules and legislation. eurojust has reduced the number of budget lines for its 2015 budget in order to address weaknesses in budget planning and implementation. i welcome the fact that eurojust will consider using differentiated appropriations to ensure the financing of its operational activities. i also welcome the annual training plan established in 2014 to meet the professional needs of staff, as well as the establishment of a competency framework reflecting eurojust's fundamental and organisational needs. i therefore support this report.
‒ eurojust is the european union body responsible for improving the effectiveness of national and executive bodies in the prosecution of serious organised and crossborder crime. eurojust is an important partner and centre of expertise at judicial level for effective measures against cross-border organised crime in the eu. i support the report by mr vaughan on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the office shall be responsible for the management of the agency's budget and shall be responsible for the management of the budget. the european union and the member states should cooperate with eurojust in the fight against corruption and provide it with the necessary resources to carry out its tasks.
written. ‒ we can never take the spending of taxpayers' money seriously enough, nor can we stress enough the importance of transparency and rationality in spending that money. the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union office for judicial cooperation should therefore be deferred until the transparency of the overall budget has been established. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014, as the discharge allows the office to continue its work without any disruption. the budget implementation rate of 99,70% indicates that the budget and financial management was carried out in accordance with the rules and on the basis of good planning. i support the process that has been initiated to improve the current internal organisational structure and the guidelines on the prevention and handling of conflicts of interest. certainly, more attention needs to be paid to protecting whistleblowers.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 has established compliance with the financial and accounting rules. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report to the director of europol for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i welcome the presentation and adoption of the transparent report by the european police office (europol). the adoption of these proposals of the previous reports has achieved additional transparency in the work of europol. the code of conduct and employment, for example, encourages further improvement and the introduction of clear criteria to maximise transparency in the spending of budgetary money earmarked for the work of europol. according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014 was eur 84 339 820, representing an increase of 2,20% compared to 2013. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the court of auditors' report confirms that budget monitoring during the financial year 2014 has improved significantly and resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,70%. it notes that the commitments were implemented in a timely manner and confirms that the implementation rate of the payment appropriations was 93%, an increase of 2,80% compared to the previous year. in view of the orderly business conducted, i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of europol for the financial year 2014.
the european parliament, having regard to the final annual financial report of the european police office for the financial year 2014, has discharged the director of europol from the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014. notes with concern that the final annual accounts of the european police office are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report; and approves the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014, i am concerned that the public procurement information on the grounds for exclusion from the tender and selection criteria and the possibilities for contract execution are not available on the websites; and i invite the agency to publish this information and all contracts concluded in 2014. i welcome parliament's decision to discharge the director of europol from the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014, and i note with satisfaction from the court of auditors' report that the budget monitoring during the financial year 2014 has improved significantly and resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,70%, indicating that the commitments were implemented in a timely manner. i note that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 93%, an increase of 2,80% compared with the previous year.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european police office (europol) is the law enforcement agency of the european union whose task is to assist law enforcement authorities in the member states and thus contribute to the security of europe. the court of auditors, in its report, expressed its reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were in accordance with eu rules and legislation. the budget monitoring during the financial year 2014 improved significantly and resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,70%, indicating that the commitments were being implemented in a timely manner. it is important that the office in the future keep the amount of committed appropriations carried over as low as possible in order to fulfil its transparency and accountability duties more effectively. in addition, europol completed in 2014 a review of the overall procurement process at organisation-wide level with a view to improving the current internal organisational structure. i consider it positive that the office applies the commission's implementing rules and should continue its efforts to ensure the efficient and correct execution of the budget. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the main task of the european police office (europol) is to assist national law enforcement authorities in the fight against serious international crime and terrorism, thus making a major contribution to the security of europe. europol should be able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states and to the commission. i support the report by mr vaughan on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014. i believe that the office should continuously promote awareness-raising among its staff on the conflict of interest policy in order to ensure the integrity and transparency of the agency. europol should also improve the prevention of and fight against corruption through a holistic approach, starting with better public access to documents and stricter rules on conflicts of interest and stronger cooperation between member states and relevant third countries.
written. ‒ the european police office has been tasked with safeguarding european security and tackling problems related to crime and terrorism, and its effective work has recently been of paramount importance for safeguarding the fundamental values of european states. but unless these tasks are carried out in a transparent manner, citizens of the eu member states cannot be sure of its effectiveness. i think that when spending budget money, agencies like the european police office should be at the forefront of transparency and rationality. but since the whole budget of the european union has not been approved, i believe that no discharge can be given to individual parts, such as the appropriation for the european police office.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014, as it demonstrates good budgetary and financial management and a 100% budget implementation rate. improvements in public procurement and recruitment procedures and improved conflict of interest policies are also noted. however, more attention needs to be paid to the protection of whistleblowers and to raising awareness of the conflict of interest policy. internal audit and controls have not revealed any major errors, and therefore i support this report.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that the accounting records are reliable, regular and legal in all respects. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report of the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights, taking into account the statement by the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the said agency are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i welcome the opinion of the court of auditors and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that the level of carry-overs of payment appropriations in 2014 is fully justified and in line with the agency's annual work programme and that, according to the court of auditors, the agency has demonstrated sufficient efficiency in its budgetary management. i believe that, like other european agencies, the european union agency for fundamental rights should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management in accordance with the budgetary principle of one year, i.e. economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of the resources at its disposal to fulfil its tasks, and i am confident that the agency will take these observations into account and take corrective action in the following financial years.
the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014, has given a discharge to the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it also concluded that the final annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. it approved the closure of the accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014. i regret the fact that in several cases judicial proceedings have been initiated against the agency in relation to cases involving ill-treatment of. i am pleased to note that in february 2014, the agency launched a website for children as part of the child rights section of its website, where children can find information about their rights, who decides on their rights and what the agency does for children, and links to find out more information. i therefore welcome the parliament's decision to grant the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the court of auditors has expressed in its report a reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the related transactions are regular and in line with eu legislation. the commission also found that the total amount of the loan was eur [0-5] million. the agency reviewed and adopted harmonised rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest in relation to the members of its management board and scientific committee at the end of 2014. i consider it positive that in february 2014, the agency launched a website for children as part of the child rights section of its website, where children can find information about their rights, who decides on their rights and what the agency does for children. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ as the final budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 was reduced by 0,56% compared to 2013 and 99% of the agency's budget derives from the union budget, the european parliament has reported on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014. in its report, the authority took into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014, which found that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the european parliament therefore gives a discharge to the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. furthermore, it approves the closure of the accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ citizens who support the european union and its agencies through their taxes have the right not to be cheated of their money by the same people. it is therefore necessary that the overall budget of the european union be transparent and positively assessed before the discharge of the european union agency for fundamental rights is granted. it is precisely because of the absence of such an opinion that i voted against this discharge.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014, as the final annual accounts of that european agency corresponded to the court of auditors' report and for the financial year 2014 amounted to eur 97 945 077, an increase of 4,25% compared to 2013. the budget monitoring during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,65%, an increase of 0,9% compared to 2013, while the payment appropriations execution rate was 68,79%, an increase of 4,81% compared to 2013.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting documentation. the commission has also received a letter from the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ frontex is the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the european union, which promotes, coordinates and develops european border management in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, applying the concept of integrated border management. frontex is responsible for coordinating the activities of national border services in the surveillance of the eu's external borders with non-member states. the final budget of frontex for the financial year 2014 was eur 97 945 077, representing an increase of 4,25% compared to 2013. the total union contribution to the agency's budget for 2014 was eur 86 810 000, representing an increase of 1,53% compared to 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the report also states that out of the 1087 procurement procedures in 2014, information on a very limited number of contracts awarded is publicly available and calls on the agency to ensure transparency and to publish all its contracts and procurement procedures. i supported the discharge because of the important role that frontex plays in guarding the eu's external borders, but i note that transparency in spending budgetary funds is essential for the continued support of eu citizens for its work.
the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014, has granted the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, and it authorised the closure of the accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014. i note with concern that, due to the large and constantly growing number of grant agreements, as well as the scale of related expenditure to be verified and reimbursed by the agency, a more efficient and cost-effective funding mechanism could be used to finance the agency's operational activities. i welcome the decision of parliament to discharge the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, as there has been significant progress in the ex ante and ex post verifications of expenditure declared by the cooperating countries under the grant agreement.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) coordinates operational cooperation between member states in the field of external border management, assists member states in training their border police, carries out risk assessment, monitors the development of research relevant to external border control and surveillance and assists member states in circumstances requiring enhanced technical and operational support at the external borders. the court of auditors considers that the supporting documentation provided by the cooperating countries with the expenditure declared is not always sufficient and that the agency has not requested audit certificates to provide additional assurance on the legality and regularity of the transactions relating to the grants. it is important to point out that the multiannual nature of the agency's operations and the increased risk of unexpected events present a particular challenge in terms of planning and execution of the annual budget. the agency has developed and adopted rules on transparency and possible conflicts of interest of its management board members, staff and national experts seconded by the agency and approved its anti-fraud strategy and action plan by the executive director of the agency in august 2015. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the agency confirms that it introduced a more extensive risk-based ex ante control system in june 2013 which includes the obligation to submit selected supporting documentation together with the final payment request as one of the positive items. on the basis of these and other positive comments, parliament in its report gave a discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 and approved the closure of the agency's accounts for the same financial year. it further concluded that the final annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. i support this report wholeheartedly.
written. ‒ frontex is extremely important, especially at a time when its capacities are under unprecedented pressure due to the migrant crisis which has reached alarming proportions. but even in emergency situations, we must be especially careful about how we use our budget funds. i voted against this discharge because i believe that a positive opinion on the overall budget of the european union should be confirmed in order to finally discharge the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the agency's budget for the european gnss for the financial year 2014 because, on the basis of the final annual financial statements, the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounting records were reliable and that the related transactions were legal and regular.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting records of the european gnss agency. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the discharge report of the executive director of the gnss agency for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european global navigation satellite systems agency supports the eu's objective of maximising the return on investment in the european global navigation satellite system (gnss). it shall manage the public interests relating to the programmes of the european global navigation satellite system (gnss), the european geostationary navigation system (egnos) and the galileo system. the total budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 369 058, an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013. the european gnss agency has adopted measures to implement the best possible management of the budget, as reflected in the financial report submitted. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission has also received a request from the european gnss agency to provide the commission with the information necessary for the implementation of the budget.
the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the gnss agency for the financial year 2014, article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the report of the committee on budgetary control, has given a discharge to the executive director of the european gnss agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the european parliament also noted that the final annual accounts of the european gnss agency comply with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014. i note that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,84%, and therefore welcome the decision of the european parliament to grant the executive director of the european gnss agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the european gnss agency (gnss) is responsible for managing public interests related to the programmes of the european global navigation satellite system (gnss), the european geostationary navigation system (egnos) and the galileo system. the court of auditors stated in its report that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency made efforts to reduce the level of carry-overs by implementing the budget earlier in the year, where possible, and thus enabling earlier payments. the agency shall also develop a new budget management tool to facilitate the implementation, monitoring and reporting of the basic and delegated budget in order to improve the management of appropriations for payments and commitments. the overall compliance of the agency with internal control standards during the financial year 2014 was satisfactory and efforts were made in areas such as the anti-fraud strategy, conflict of interest, risk management and the internal audit function to correct non-compliance. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ as regards reducing the level of carry-overs by implementing the budget earlier in the year, the agency made efforts wherever possible. this allowed for earlier payments. in addition, the work on developing a new budget management instrument to improve the management of appropriations for payments and commitments is commendable. the european parliament in its report calls on the agency to inform the discharge authority of the improvements brought about by the introduction of that instrument. furthermore, in the same report, on the basis of those observations, it gives a discharge to the executive director of the european gnss agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency for the same financial year, having determined that the final annual accounts of the european gnss agency are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. i support this report from the european parliament.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, postponing its discharge decision and postponing the closure of the accounts of the said undertaking, as the court of auditors considered that improvements were needed in the area of budgetary and financial management, in particular in the regularity and legality of related transactions where the administrative agreements signed with the national funding authorities regarding the audit of requests for payment of project costs did not include practical prerequisites for ex post audits.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 identified a lack of information in the accounting documentation. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the report postponing the discharge decision to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking for the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
the artemis joint undertaking shall be financed by a union contribution and a member state contribution in a ratio of 1 to 1,8. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. however, i am concerned to note that, according to the court's report, budgetary constraints in the member states have made it difficult to reserve the remaining part of the budget, which represents 52% of the total budget, and i believe that this practice must change. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, the court did not assess the quality of the audit reports received from the national authorities related to the financing of the costs of the completed projects. while the court of auditors' finding is positive, in view of the ambiguities mentioned, i supported the proposal to defer the vote on the discharge for the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the 'artemis' joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the report of the committee on budgetary control, deferred its decision on discharge to be given to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in addition, parliament postponed the closure of the books of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i note from the court's report that the joint undertaking did not assess the quality of the audit reports received from the national funding bodies in relation to the costs related to the completed projects. i welcome the report of the european parliament on the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, irrespective of the time limit within which discharge will be granted.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in various fields of application. the objective of its establishment was to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the union. this has enabled new markets to emerge. the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking are merged to create a joint technology initiative for electronic components and systems for european leadership. given that the financial statements of the artemis joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position, the european parliament hereby postpones its decision on discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. furthermore, it postpones the closure of the books of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. on that basis, i support the report.
the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in various fields of application. the objective of its establishment was to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the union. this has enabled new markets to emerge. the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking are merged to create a joint technology initiative for electronic components and systems for european leadership. given that the financial statements of the artemis joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position, the european parliament, by means of a report, deferred its decision on discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. furthermore, it postpones the closure of the books of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the financial statements of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 shall, in all material respects, faithfully present the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 26 june 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the period ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the commission. the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking have been merged to create a joint technology initiative for electronic components and systems for european leadership. although the function of the internal audit department was not established at the time of the merger of artemis and eniac, it was established shortly after the merger and has been shown to be free from any operational irregularities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report for the financial year 2014 of the clean sky joint undertaking, which gives discharge to the budget, as the court of auditors confirmed that all underlying transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. in the course of the financial year 2014, the internal audit service completed the audit of the financial aspects of the management of the grants and issued two very important recommendations on the basis of that audit, to which the joint undertaking responded by implementing a specific action plan and by the end of 2014 the agreed actions were implemented for both recommendations.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that the accounting records are free from irregularities and in line with the provisions of the financial rules. the commission has also received a letter from the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to accelerate the development, testing and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the european union so that they can be put into use as soon as possible. the joint undertaking has involved more than 600 participants in its programme since its inception, leading to the creation of new partnerships and the participation of new organisations. the court of auditors found that the company's operations in 2014 were legal, orderly and regular. the financial report shows that the final budget of the joint undertaking for 2014 was eur 229 241 765, including eur 27 640 836 of unused appropriations carried over from 2013. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, and i have therefore supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and council regulation (ec) no 71/2008 of 20 december 2007 establishing the clean sky joint undertaking, has granted the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i note that the court's report is based on too general observations rather than on well-founded and concrete ones. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i welcome the adoption of the discharge and hope that the clean sky joint undertaking will successfully implement its programmes.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the european parliament notes in its report that in june 2014 the clean sky 2 joint undertaking took over the activities of the clean sky joint undertaking. the commission has also received comments from the member states and the european parliament on the application of the union's financial rules to the joint undertaking for clean sky. the joint undertaking shall be managed by the joint undertaking's executive director, who shall be appointed by the governing board. the court of auditors also found that the commission had not been able to verify the financial statements of the beneficiaries, and that the commission had not been able to verify the financial statements of the beneficiaries. however, since the court of auditors has declared that the results of operations and cash flows for the year ended are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules, the european parliament gives a discharge to the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in view of the above, i support this report.
the european parliament notes in its report that in june 2014 the clean sky 2 joint undertaking took over the activities of the clean sky joint undertaking. notes with concern that the joint undertaking has not carried out ex post audits of the accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2012; notes that the final budget of the joint undertaking for 2014 was eur 229 241 765, including eur 27 640 836 of unused appropriations carried over from 2013; the court of auditors also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corrections for the corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre corre however, since the court of auditors has declared that the results of operations and cash flows for the year ended are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules, the european parliament gives a discharge to the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i support this report wholeheartedly.
written. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking is tasked with achieving environmental objectives through further integration of advanced technologies into aircraft and demonstration of innovative aircraft configurations that enable changes in environmental and economic performance. although the role of this joint venture is unquestionable, i believe that we cannot give it a discharge until the overall budget is acceptable. that's why i voted against this discharge.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac and artemis joint undertakings) for the financial year 2014, which gives the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as their accounting records, as submitted by the court of auditors, are reliable, regular and lawful.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting documentation. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the ecsel joint undertaking (the 'joint undertaking') was established on 7 june 2014 as a joint undertaking within the meaning of article 187 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union for the purpose of implementing the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' for the period until 31 december 2024. in this report, which i support, i note with satisfaction that the joint undertaking has adopted a comprehensive policy on the prevention of conflicts of interest and i welcome the progress made by the joint undertaking in monitoring and reporting on its activities. the financial report shows that the final budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 was eur 160 114 500 and payment appropriations amounted to eur 104 144 250. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the european parliament has granted discharge to the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. in doing so, it took into account article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the final annual accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking. the european parliament also took note of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking and approved the closure of the accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. although i note that the court's report was based on too general observations rather than on well-founded and concrete ones, i welcome the adoption of the discharge.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the ecsel joint undertaking was established to replace and succeed the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking. this public-private partnership for electronic components and systems should pool the financial and technical resources that are important for innovation. the european parliament in its report stressed that the information contained in the report on the budgetary and financial management of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 was insufficiently harmonised and often incomplete. notes with concern that the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were published in the official journal of the european union; notes, furthermore, that the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were published in the official journal of the european union; the european parliament therefore confirmed the discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and approved the closure of the accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the ecsel joint undertaking was established to replace and succeed the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking. this public-private partnership for electronic components and systems should pool the financial and technical resources that are important for innovation. the european parliament notes in its report that the information provided in the report on the budgetary and financial management of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 was insufficiently harmonised and often incomplete. notes with concern that the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were published in the official journal of the european union; notes, furthermore, that the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were published in the official journal of the european union; the european parliament therefore gives a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i support this report wholeheartedly.
written. ‒ i believe that the discharge of the ecsel joint undertaking should be postponed until the overall budget of the european union is fully transparent and in the interest of the citizens of the member states of the european union. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation.
written. ‒ voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 postponing the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as improvements are still needed in the area of budgetary and financial management. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 january 2014, gave a qualified opinion for the fourth consecutive year on the regularity and legality of the related transactions on the basis that the administrative agreements signed with the national funding authorities regarding the audit of the requests for payment of project costs do not include the practical preconditions for ex post audits.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that the accounting records of the eniac joint undertaking are incomplete. the commission has also received a letter from the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research programme' for the development of key knowledge in nanoelectronics in different fields of application. the founding members of the eniac joint undertaking are the european union, represented by the commission, belgium, germany, estonia, ireland, greece, spain, france, italy, the netherlands, poland, portugal, sweden and the united kingdom, and the association for european nanoelectronics activities (aeneas). the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for a period of 10 years shall be eur 450.000.000, paid from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, stated that the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking correctly present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2014. however, the rapporteur states that he has not gained confidence in the proper implementation of the projects in the member states. in view of the fact that i share his view that it is necessary for the court of auditors to verify and assess the quality of the expenditure of national resources, and not only those for joint projects, i supported the decision to postpone the vote on the discharge for the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the european parliament, taking into account the eniac final annual report for 2014 and article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, postponed its decision on the discharge to be given to the executive directors of the eniac joint undertaking. the parliament also postponed the closure of the 2014 accounts. i agree with the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eniac for the financial year 2014, irrespective of when it is granted.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research programme to develop key competences in nanoelectronics in various fields of application. in july 2010, eniac was granted financial independence. furthermore, the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking have been merged to create the joint technology initiative on electronic components and systems for european leadership (zti ecsel), which started operations in june 2014 and will run for 10 years. the report underlined that the initial 2014 budget only included commitment appropriations for current expenditure of eur 2 300 000 and that the budget did not include commitment appropriations for operational activities. for this reason, the european parliament postpones its decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, and postpones the closure of the joint undertaking's accounts. i therefore support this report.
the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research programme to develop key competences in nanoelectronics in various fields of application. he was granted financial independence in july 2010. furthermore, the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking have been merged to create the joint technology initiative on electronic components and systems for european leadership (zti ecsel), which started operations in june 2014 and will run for 10 years. the european parliament notes in its report that the initial 2014 budget only included commitment appropriations for current expenditure of eur 2 300 000 and that the budget did not include commitment appropriations for operational activities. it therefore postpones its decision on discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, and postpones the closure of the joint undertaking's accounts. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ the joint undertaking's annual accounts have established that the internal audit division has carried out its approved work programme covering the legality and regularity of the administrative and operational transactions carried out in cooperation with the national funding authorities and the management board and the executive director have been informed of the results, and i have therefore supported this discharge report on the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. the financial statements of the joint undertaking shall faithfully present its financial position and the results of its operations and cash flows for the period requested, in accordance with the provisions of the financial rules of the joint undertaking and the accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the commission. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the discharge authority with the information it needs to carry out its tasks.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, approving the closure of the accounts of that undertaking, as the results of operations and cash flows for the year ended were in accordance with the provisions of the financial rules, as confirmed by the court of auditors.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting documentation. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the joint undertaking was established in may 2008 as a public-private partnership by regulation (ec) no 521/2008 for a period until 31 december 2017 to focus on the development of market-ready solutions that will then accelerate the additional efforts of industry to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the members of the joint undertaking shall be the eu, represented by the commission, the fuel cells and hydrogen joint technology initiative industry group and the n.erghy research group. the court of auditors' finding states that the 2014 annual financial statements of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking present, in all material respects, an objective view of its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and that the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ parliament, taking into account article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the financial report of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, postponed its decision on the discharge to the executive directors of the ecsl for the purpose of winding up the joint undertaking, and having regard to the 2014 annual financial report of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. the parliament also postponed the closure of the 2014 accounts. i agree with the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established in may 2008 as a public-private partnership with the aim of focusing on the development of market-ready solutions that will then facilitate the additional efforts of industry to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the joint undertaking has been successful in terms of monitoring and reporting and has also been active in terms of calls for proposals. i therefore support the discharge to be given to the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014 and the closure of the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established in may 2008 as a public-private partnership to focus on the development of market-ready solutions that will then facilitate the additional efforts of industry to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the european parliament notes that the joint undertaking has been successful in terms of monitoring and reporting and has been active in terms of calls for proposals. therefore, it grants the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014, and approves the closure of the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i support this report from the european parliament.
written. ‒ respect for the rules on the use of budgetary money, combined with effective problem-solving, is crucial for citizens' trust in the eu institutions. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i consider that the approval of the joint undertakings should be deferred until the content of the overall discharge for that year is seen.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines) for the financial year 2014, as it is noted in the annual report that by the end of 2014 four ex post reviews and audits of selected companies belonging to that undertaking had been carried out and two additional reviews and audits were ongoing. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the programme.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that the annual accounting documentation complies with the financial and accounting rules. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
‒ the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process. the long-term objective of the company is to help the pharmaceutical sector develop and produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. the financial report shows that the annual budget of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking for 2014 included eur 223 000 000 in appropriations for commitments and eur 171 000 000 in appropriations for payments. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i therefore supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
the joint undertaking shall be managed by the joint undertaking, which shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i note that the court's report was based on too general a statement rather than on well-founded and specific ones. the joint undertaking will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the cotonou agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the cotonou agreement.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process with the long-term objective of making the pharmaceutical sector produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. the results of the operational ex ante controls of the payment of project costs were not adequately documented in a way that did not clearly indicate or explain the project phase or all that was achieved by it. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the joint undertaking's activities in the light of the results of the evaluation of the joint undertaking's activities. the joint undertaking shall be entrusted with the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process with the long-term objective of making the pharmaceutical sector produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the project was not financed by the state. it also notes that the involvement of smes is steadily increasing thanks to the promotion of their participation in the activities of the joint undertaking. the european parliament therefore gives a discharge to the executive director of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking in his report for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the books of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i support this report.
written. ‒ the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking should address bottlenecks in public health areas that limit the efficiency and quality of drug development and the marketing of innovative medicines. however, if the activities of that company are not transparent, there is a possibility that its work does not benefit the citizens of the member states of the european union. i believe that all companies and all segments of the eu budget should be transparent and sustainable, which is why i voted to delay the discharge for this company.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 postponing the discharge decision. although the annual accounts of that undertaking for 2014 present faithfully, in all material respects, its financial position, there were nonetheless gaps in the insufficiently harmonised and often incomplete information contained in the annual report on the management of the budget and financial management which each institution and body is required to draw up.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2014 found that the accounting documentation was insufficiently harmonised and incomplete. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the deferral of the discharge to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is an international undertaking involving, in addition to the member states of the european union, significant economic powers such as the united states, india, japan, russia and china. as the european contribution to iter, the eu committed €6.6 billion in 2008. the court's findings show that this amount is twice as high as the initial budgetary expenditure and does not include the amount of eur 663 000 000 proposed by the commission to cover any unforeseen expenditure. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget and shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget. in view of the above, i could not support the discharge for the financial year 2014 of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy until additional information on the proper implementation of the project and the proper use of the financial resources, not only of the european component but also of the resources of the other states participating in the joint project, had been collected. that's why i voted to postpone the 2014 vote on the discharge.
‒ the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and to the report of the committee on budgetary control, deferred its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to the director of the iter joint undertaking for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, and article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it also deferred the closure of the accounts of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i therefore support the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. the information provided by the joint undertaking in its reports on budgetary and financial management was inconsistent and often incomplete. in addition, the commission should provide guidance on the features and content of those reports. therefore, i call on the new director general of the iter organisation to publicly present the new iter action plan and expect that the new iter action plan will clearly avoid possible misunderstandings and additional costs. in addition, i hope that the new action plan will include measures to address all the court's observations. following the above, the european parliament postponed its decision on the discharge of the director of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014, and for the closure of the accounts of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. the european parliament notes in its report that the information provided by the joint undertaking in its reports on budgetary and financial management was insufficiently harmonised and often incomplete. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of the union rules. calls on the new director-general of the iter organisation to publicly present the new iter action plan and expects that the new iter action plan will clearly avoid possible delays and additional costs. in addition, it is hoped that the new action plan will include measures to address all the court's observations. the european parliament therefore postpones its decision on the discharge to the director of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. furthermore, it postpones the closure of the accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. i support this report wholeheartedly.
written. ‒ significant progress has been made in the transparency of the iter joint undertaking and most of the cvs of the members of the governing board and the members of its subsidiary bodies have been published on the joint undertaking's website. the joint undertaking has also been able to demonstrate that the project is a viable alternative to the existing infrastructure. the joint undertaking shall continue to develop a centralised and single system for integrating all operational data to enable the regular monitoring and control of estimates, costs and discrepancies, which is essential. in accordance with the above, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, which allows for the implementation of the budget, but with the caveat that the next audit will focus in particular on the annual financial results of the said undertaking and on the implementation status of multiannual projects (including a clear presentation of the implementation of the budget for that year and for previous years) and on the results and their implementation, as the court's report this time was based on too many general observations instead of well-founded and concrete ones.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 has established that the accounts are regular. the joint undertaking shall be managed by the joint undertaking's executive director.
written. ‒ the development of new technologies to increase the capacity and reduce the costs of european airspace is envisaged by the establishment of a joint undertaking for air traffic management research on the single european sky. the joint undertaking shall play an important role in coordinating and implementing research under the sesar project, one of the key projects for the establishment of the single european sky. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. in the light of the above, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ the european parliament, having regard to the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, has granted the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the parliament also approved the closure of the books of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors' report was based on too general observations, rather than on well-founded and concrete ones, and this is problematic. i welcome the adoption of the discharge in view of the important role played by the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research under the sesar project, one of the fundamental projects for the establishment of the single european sky.
written. ‒ i supported this discharge, but this explanation of vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the sesar joint undertaking was established in february 2007 to lead the single european sky air traffic management research programme, which aims to modernise traffic management in europe. it is established as a public-private partnership, with the european union and eurocontrol as founding members and participating in equal shares, together with the public and private partners involved in the project. the court of auditors' report is based on too general observations rather than on well-founded and concrete ones, and therefore the committee requested in its report a review that would focus in particular on the annual financial results, the implementation status of multiannual projects and on the results and their implementation. the joint undertaking will also be able to provide support to the development of the european aviation safety agency (easa) and the european aviation safety agency (easa). i therefore support the discharge to be given to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and the closure of the books of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in view of the above, i support this report.
‒ the sesar joint undertaking was established in february 2007 to lead the single european sky air traffic management research programme, which aims to modernise traffic management in europe. it is established as a public-private partnership, with the union and eurocontrol as founding members, and participating in it on an equal footing, of course, together with the public and private partners involved in the project. the european parliament notes that the court of auditors' report is based on too general observations rather than on well-founded and concrete ones, and therefore calls in its report for an audit that will focus in particular on the annual financial results, the implementation status of multiannual projects and on the results and their implementation. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud, corruption and organised crime. in its report, the european parliament gives a discharge to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the books of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i appreciate the work being done by the joint undertaking to develop the next generation of a european air traffic management system and i understand the importance of their research for the european union. however, i could not support this discharge because the european budget was not fully approved. i believe that transparency, rationality and targeted spending are also extremely important for developing citizens' trust in institutions, and for that reason this discharge will not have my support.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the european investment bank (eib) annual report 2014, as i am well aware of the eib's results as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. i would highlight the increase in the eib group's overall financing activities in 2014; the importance of the eib to complement cohesion policy and the european structural and investment funds; the start of the use of new tools and services under innovfin supporting research and innovation; the efforts made to reduce administrative burdens and the advisory role of the eib, which is important due to the lack of administrative capacity, which is a major obstacle to the successful achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy. i welcome the partnership between the commission and the eib.
written. ‒ the eib's main tasks are to promote european policy beyond borders, to provide positive impulses to boost economic growth and employment in the union and to support measures relating to climate change mitigation. the eib provides almost 90% of its lending for projects within the union. some of the eib's main objectives are to enable better economic, social and territorial cohesion, thereby strengthening european values and impacting competitiveness. i supported the report by georgi pirinsky because it clearly highlighted the importance of the eib. the eib is not just a 'pure' financial institution, but a consultant advising member states, various companies and institutions on how to make the most of financial opportunities.
written. ‒ this report recalls that the eib's core task is to support financially projects that contribute to the balanced development of the union's internal market, social, economic and territorial cohesion, thus strengthening european integration and increasing employment. i welcome the eib's efforts to increase the low level of investment in the eu and the fact that in 2014 it financed 285 000 smes. i believe that investing in the real economy with a view to creating jobs, especially among young people, should be a priority for the eib. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the union's policies on the environment and climate change, including on the impact of the union's policies on the environment and climate change, and on the impact of the union's policies on the environment and climate change. the eib must have zero tolerance for fraud and corruption in its work and stricter rules on conflicts of interest are needed. the 2014 annual report on the european investment bank provides a realistic picture of the eib's operations and good recommendations for future action, which is why i supported it.
‒ the european investment bank aims to promote youth employment, improve environmental sustainability and climate policy, and promote economic and social cohesion and convergence. in 2014, it launched an initiative called 'skills and jobs'. i welcome the settlement reached with the world bank, which allows the european investment bank to help ukraine to procure gas. the european investment bank should improve its sectoral analysis capacity and publish aggregated statistical data as well as information relating to sub-projects, thereby facilitating targeted access to specific sectors or forms of smes. in view of the above, i support the annual financial report of the european investment bank and hope that it will continue to work towards its objectives.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the european investment bank (eib) annual report 2014, as i welcome the eib's achievements for 2014 as set out in the report and believe that the eib should continue its efforts to increase the level of investment in the eu. the eib's core task is to support financially projects of union interest which contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion, thereby strengthening european integration and increasing employment, which is of the utmost importance for boosting the union's competitiveness. it is necessary to continue to finance and encourage projects aimed at creating new jobs and preserving existing ones, encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises, encouraging innovation, encouraging climate-friendly projects, encouraging cohesion projects, financing projects in third countries in order to support sustainable development worldwide. the report highlights the importance of maintaining the highest credit rating aaa due to the more favourable conditions on the world capital markets. the report also identifies challenges to be addressed, such as the huge influx of immigrants from different regions of the world and continued caution in funding projects linked to corruption and organised crime.
written. ‒ the european investment bank's mission is to support projects of union interest in a way that strengthens european integration and creates new jobs. the eib does so by providing loans and guarantees to part-finance these projects, in line with eu priorities and objectives. the stagnation of the eu economy has left the member states facing numerous territorial and social divisions within the union. the current role of the european investment bank is therefore to act urgently and to advise the member states. i support the report of the parliament on the annual report of the eib for 2014. the eib has, according to its report, financed, among other things, 285 000 smes and protected 3,6 million jobs. the eib's prominence in increasing investment in the eu is commendable. however, it should aim to support member states that have not been successful in terms of the number of approved projects by acting as an intermediary in the exchange of information between those member states and those that already have developed good practices. i also believe that the next report for 2015 should be more comprehensive, with more detailed analysis and information on the results achieved. i have therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ the european investment bank's mission is to support projects of union interest in a way that strengthens european integration and creates new jobs. the eib does so by providing loans and guarantees to part-finance these projects, in line with eu priorities and objectives. the stagnation of the eu economy has left the member states facing numerous territorial and social divisions within the union. the current role of the european investment bank is therefore to act urgently and to advise the member states. i support the report of the parliament on the annual report of the eib for 2014. the eib has, according to its report, financed, among other things, 285 000 smes. 3.6 million jobs are protected. the eib's prominence in promoting low-cost investment in the eu is commendable. however, it should aim to support member states that have not been successful in terms of the number of approved projects by acting as an intermediary in the exchange of information between those member states and those that already have developed good practices. i believe that the next report for 2015 should be more comprehensive, with more detailed analysis and information on the results achieved.
written. ‒ the european investment bank has increased its overall financing activities to include more than €50 billion of additional lending and more than €150 billion of mobilised investment, which is very important for complementing cohesion policy and the european structural and investment funds. the obstacles to the successful achievement of cohesion policy objectives take the form of administrative burdens and lack of administrative capacity. i believe that efforts should be made and proposals made as soon as possible for administrative rationalisation and reduction of administrative burden. since the adoption of this report, which proposes to introduce additional administrative capacity, leads to a significant unnecessary increase in the budget, i have abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as they are violations of international humanitarian law. the resolution deeply regrets the lack of respect for international humanitarian law and expresses concern at the deadly attacks on hospitals, schools and other civilian targets, which are becoming more and more frequent in armed conflicts and in which patients, students, medical and teaching staff, humanitarian workers, children and family members are targeted and victimized. the international community must condemn, independent investigations and sanctions such abuses. in this regard, the eu and its member states should take all available measures, including the initiation of an eu arms embargo against states responsible for such acts.
written. ‒ the draft resolution underlines the international community's concern about the increased attacks on hospitals and schools around the world in conflict-affected areas. the protection of humanitarian and health workers and the principles of independence, neutrality and humanity, which are guaranteed as fundamental rights by the geneva convention, need to be strengthened and improved. the parties shall cooperate with a view to promoting the implementation of the principles of non-proliferation and disarmament, including the principles of non-proliferation and disarmament, and the principles of non-proliferation and disarmament, including the principles of non-proliferation and disarmament, and the principles of non-proliferation and non-proliferation, including the principles of non-proliferation and non-proliferation, and the principles of non-proliferation and non-proliferation. i supported the motion for a resolution because it calls on the member states and the eu to ratify the main instruments of international humanitarian law and other relevant legal instruments that have an impact on international humanitarian law and to provide humanitarian assistance when needed.
written. - attacks on hospitals and schools are a direct violation of the rules of war. these are places that even in war must be preserved. however, there are no rules of warfare in wars that are neither just nor justified, and whose devastating consequences we have seen in recent years. war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide are our reality today. we must not allow the denial of humanitarian aid, the destruction of hospitals and schools, the brutal killing and torture of civilians and aid workers. all of this is in direct violation of international humanitarian law. international humanitarian law aims to protect those who are not involved in the conflict but are directly affected by it. the eu as one of the main actors of international law must do everything in its power, using all available means, to stop violations of humanitarian law. it is also impermissible for member states or countries with which the eu cooperates to participate in any way in violations of humanitarian law. we must impose an arms embargo on states responsible for violations of humanitarian law and we must stop being the enablers of war. i support this resolution because humanitarian law must be the basis of our efforts to preserve human life above all, and we must do more to that end.
written. - unfortunately, there have been a number of attacks on schools and hospitals around the world recently involving the use of powerful weapons. given that the safety of humanitarian workers and the injured persons they care for is often at risk, and that these attacks constitute a violation of international humanitarian law, as well as a serious threat to the future of humanitarian assistance, and that hospitals and medical personnel are explicitly protected by international humanitarian law, and that any deliberate attack on civilians and civilian infrastructure is considered a serious violation of international humanitarian law, i am shocked and seriously concerned by the deadly attacks on hospitals and schools, which are alarmingly frequent in armed conflicts around the world, targeting patients, students, medical and teaching staff, humanitarian workers, volunteers and family members and victims, and international condemnations rarely leading to independent investigations and accountability. i call on the member states, the eu institutions and the high representative to recognise the true scale of this crisis situation and to prepare without further delay a concrete action plan with timelines to fully leverage the eu and member state influence to stop these violations and abuses.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ in the last decade, the international community has witnessed a growing trend of attacks on schools and hospitals in armed conflicts around the world, as evidenced by recent attacks in kenya, northern nigeria, afghanistan, yemen and northern syria. the number of people in need of assistance has more than doubled since 2004, to over 100 million in 2015, and 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises. the number of forcibly displaced people has reached its highest point since world war ii, at nearly 60 million, including nearly 40 million internally displaced persons, and half of the world's refugees are children. in his report to the world humanitarian summit entitled 'one humanity, shared responsibility', the un secretary-general drew attention to what he described as 'a flagrant and flagrant violation of international human rights law and international humanitarian law' in armed conflict, which threatens to return to an era of unrestricted warfare. the purpose of international humanitarian law, also known as the laws of armed conflict, is to mitigate the effects of armed conflict by providing protection to those not involved in the conflict and by regulating the means and methods of warfare.
written. ‒ unfortunately, in the last decade the international community has witnessed a growing trend of attacks on schools and hospitals in armed conflicts around the world, as evidenced by recent attacks in kenya, northern nigeria, afghanistan, yemen and northern syria. humanitarian crises have affected 250 million people, and all parties to the conflict, state and non-state armed forces, have an obligation to ensure that humanitarian workers have access to vulnerable, conflict-affected civilians to help them. i support this motion for a resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law. i believe it is necessary to mitigate the effects of armed conflict by providing protection to those not involved in the conflict and by regulating the means and methods of warfare. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of human rights violations in the country, including the number of cases of violations of international humanitarian law, the number of cases of violations of international humanitarian law, the number of cases of violations of international humanitarian law, and the number of cases of violations of international humanitarian law. i also believe that the european union's guideline on promoting compliance with international humanitarian law is important and unique in that no other country or organisation has adopted a similar document.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on public access to documents (rule 116 (7)) for 2014 and 2015, given the need to achieve greater transparency as a backbone of citizens' trust in the union institutions, and given that the right of access to documents is one of the fundamental rights protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties. the report identifies a number of shortcomings and makes recommendations to improve the transparency of the work of certain eu bodies, institutions and agencies. citizens must have an insight into the activities of their elected representatives, the decision-making process and the way public funds are distributed and spent. as a member of the committee on regional development, i am particularly interested in harmonising the criteria for disclosure of beneficiaries of eu structural funds.
written. ‒ full transparency and data availability are essential for the good management of the structural funds, as they are a good tool to prevent and combat misuse and fraud. they also strengthen democratic scrutiny of the activities of the institutions and contribute to greater awareness and information about the eu decision-making process, providing citizens with timely information. citizens have the right to be informed about the work of their representatives, the decision-making process and the way public funds are allocated and spent, and to monitor these activities, and the institutions have a duty to ensure full transparency in access to documents, which is why i supported the report.
written. - i did not support the public access report. it is worrying that under the guise of citizens' right to public access to documents, they are trying to introduce controversial ideas that are hidden behind the call for direct democracy. proposals such as holding all eu meetings with public access, publishing all documents and information, publicly broadcasting trialogue sessions, publicly publishing positions and mandates for international treaties before negotiations have even started, giving public access to negotiating documents to all stakeholders, translating all documents into all official eu languages, publishing records for each document and listing all incoming and outgoing emails and documents including publishing contact information for lobbyists for all officials in all eu institutions (including those at non-management levels) testify to citizens' distrust of politics and politicians. making it publicly available is no problem. the problem is that the heap of data will not reveal the essence (the tree will not reveal the forest), and the data from such a vast archive can easily be misused. the benefits for citizens are not there, the costs associated with the functioning of the union can only increase while officials, under constant attacks from opposing political camps, will have to deal even more with their public image and less with the needs of citizens.
written. ‒ i support the report on public access to documents. at the same time, i regret the fact that citizens continue to have difficulty accessing information held by the eu institutions because the institutions do not have a common policy aimed at facilitating access to documents for citizens and based on the principles of full transparency, communication and direct democracy. i call on the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies to continue to develop an even more proactive approach to transparency by proactively publishing as many documents as possible in the simplest, most accessible, user-friendly way, translating documents on request into other official eu languages and establishing a suitable, simple and inexpensive system for accessing information, including by digital and electronic means, taking into account the needs of persons with disabilities. i also call on the eu institutions, bodies and agencies to adopt faster, less complex and more accessible procedures for dealing with complaints about denied access. i believe that a more proactive approach would contribute to providing more effective transparency and avoiding unnecessary legal disputes that can lead to unnecessary costs and burdens for both institutions and citizens. i take note of the european ombudsman's inquiry into the so-called 'trial's' which are the established practice for adopting most eu legislation. in this context, i call on the european ombudsman to make full use of his investigative powers within the limits of the powers laid down by the treaties and the statute of the european ombudsman.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ full transparency is the backbone of citizens' trust in the union institutions and contributes to a better understanding of the rights arising from the union legal order and to greater awareness and information about the eu decision-making process, including the proper implementation of administrative and legislative procedures. the right of access to documents is one of the fundamental rights protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties and is implemented by regulation no 1049/2001 which aims, in particular, to ensure that this right is applied as easily as possible and to promote good administrative practices for access to documents, by ensuring democratic control over the activities of the institutions and their compliance with the rules contained in the treaties. it is also important to emphasise that the guarantee of transparency is accompanied by an obligation to respect privacy and data protection. any decision to deny access to documents to the public must be based on clearly and rigorously defined legal grounds, accompanied by reasoned and specific explanations, which enable citizens to understand the denial of access and to use the available legal remedies effectively. i therefore call on the commission to present in the meantime an ambitious action plan on transparency and public access to documents, thereby demonstrating that transparency is the cornerstone of better regulation, and i support this report.
written. ‒ the right of public access to documents is a right guaranteed to every eu citizen and to every person currently residing in the eu by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. it is also essential to speed up unnecessary administration in order to increase efficiency and avoid unnecessary costs in the access to documents procedure. i support the report on public access to documents for 2014 and 2015. i believe that transparency strengthens the trust that citizens have in the eu institutions and contributes to citizens' knowledge of the legal system and decision-making within the eu. the right of access to documents is one of the fundamental rights that must be made as easily accessible as possible. the european parliament shall ensure a high level of transparency in its work by acting in the interest of the citizens from whom it is elected.
‒ the 2014 and 2015 report on public access to documents emphasises that full transparency is the backbone of citizens' trust in the institutions of the european union and that it contributes to a better understanding of the rights arising from the union's legal order and to greater awareness and information about the decision-making process in the european union. access to documents is one of the fundamental rights protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties, which aim to ensure that this right is applied as easily as possible, but also to promote good administrative practices for access to documents. i maintain that any decision to deny public access to documents must be based on clearly and rigorously defined legal grounds, accompanied by reasoned and concrete explanations, which enable citizens to understand the denial of access. i regret that citizens still have difficulty accessing information held by the institutions of the european union, because the institutions do not have a common policy, and i supported this report in the hope that this would finally be resolved.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on domestic workers and carers in the eu because i believe that domestic work and care services are still not sufficiently recognised as genuine jobs today. the eu and all member states should adopt common rules on the work of the sector and promote the professional recognition of skills and qualifications of workers in the sector in order to open up better opportunities for professional development, better working conditions and social recognition. recognition of this labour sector would likely contribute to reducing the rate of undeclared work and promoting social integration, while also creating jobs and boosting growth.
written. ‒ the report addresses the importance of promoting the professional recognition of skills of domestic workers and carers in order to improve their professional development opportunities and working conditions. the household care and work sector is economically important, providing employment opportunities for a large part of the workforce, but it is also one of the sectors in the eu with the highest risk of exploitation of workers. despite the added value it brings to society and the economy and its potential, domestic work remains financially undervalued, informal and undeclared. unfortunately, this report is not comprehensive in proposing solutions to the problem, so i have abstained.
written. ‒ the report on domestic workers and nurses in the eu is a pledge to ensure the dignity of domestic workers and nurses, who are still discriminated against in the eu today, often have no rights and their work is valued. it is also a sector where undeclared work and various forms of exploitation are prevalent and where there is a need to regulate it by law and to provide all workers and domestic carers, especially women who predominate in this sector, with adequate protection. recognising domestic and care work as equivalent to any other form of work will contribute to reducing undeclared work, and therefore common frameworks at eu level are needed to ensure that domestic workers are adequately remunerated for their work and that minimum standards of social protection are in place. it is important to emphasise that household and family employment is the only sector of work that has been continuously creating new jobs in the eu since 2008, and the professionalisation of household and care work and the protection and safeguarding of workers' rights are also important for economic development. the house will vote on the resolution by a large majority, with the support of the european parliament, and the commission, which will be voting on it.
written. ‒ the european parliament, taking into account the treaty on european union, and in particular its preamble and articles 3 and 6, considers that there is a need for domestic work and care services to be recognised as genuine jobs at eu level and to be recognised as having value, given that recognition of this labour sector is likely to contribute to reducing the rate of undeclared work and promoting social inclusion, and therefore calls on the eu and the member states to adopt common rules on domestic and care work. i believe that the domestic and care sector and its professionalisation can create jobs and boost growth and that therefore fair pay needs to be guaranteed. i think that solutions could be part of the social innovation model. i therefore welcome the parliament's initiative to achieve the professionalisation of the status of domestic workers and to increase the attractiveness of the sector, thereby improving the quality of the services provided and promoting decent and recognised work.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the main characteristics of domestic and care work are employment instability, geographical mobility, ad hoc working hours, seasonal work, shifts, job insecurity, casual work and largely unreported work, and exploitation present in both sectors. according to the international labour organisation, 29.9% of domestic workers are fully exempt from national labour laws and, to date, the work of domestic workers and carers in the eu is very sparsely and unevenly regulated in the member states and therefore have limited labour rights and access to social care. i consider it necessary for member states to establish a legal framework to allow for the lawful and organised employment of domestic workers and carers and to define the rights and responsibilities of those concerned, with a view to providing legal certainty to workers in this sector and their potential employers.
written. ‒ domestic work refers to activities that are mainly done by women and whose value is rarely recognised. in today's society, that work is not considered to have any value. workers and caregivers are at risk of lifelong poverty, which can make them feel isolated and dissatisfied. furthermore, they find it difficult to balance their personal, family, and professional lives. it is important to understand that domestic workers and caregivers have the right to a dignified life and a good job. the european parliament's report therefore addresses domestic workers and carers in the eu and also includes the problems of undeclared work and exploitation, employment instability, job insecurity and flexible working hours. in addition, there are known cases of trafficking in women, forced labour or other criminal activities, especially in relation to migrants and refugees.
written. ‒ according to the international labour organisation convention, a domestic worker is any person who performs domestic work in the context of an employment relationship, regardless of whether he works in one or more households, whereas a person who performs domestic work only occasionally or sporadically and is not a professional is not considered a domestic worker. according to the international labour organization, 52 million workers were employed in the domestic sector worldwide in 2010, and in the european union, 88% of the workforce in this sector are women. this draft report implies that workers in a particular sector are recognised with employment-related rights and social protection rights equivalent to those enjoyed by workers working under employment contracts regulated by law. i believe that the legal obstacles that lead to a reduction in the rate of reported and direct employment of workers should be removed, but i believe that this is not the solution and therefore i have abstained.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age because i believe that there is a very significant digital gender gap in the ict sector which should certainly be bridged by encouraging the full integration of women in the sector and by promoting the education and training of women and girls in the sector. this report, which i voted for, in order to increase the visibility of women, calls on member states to address the gender imbalance in the ict sector by highlighting the benefits of diversity for business and introducing a number of stronger incentives for both companies and women.
written. ‒ the report highlights the need for digitalisation in today's world, which has changed the way we communicate and access information. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the digital transformation on the labour market, in particular on the impact of the digital transformation on the labour market, on the labour market and on the labour market in general. the digital agenda and the digital single market strategy should be better used to promote the full integration and education of women in information and communication technologies, as their active participation can improve the social conditions and competitiveness of the eu. to this end, it is necessary to create the conditions for an innovative and competitive ict environment, facilitate the availability of microfinance for women entrepreneurs and improve financial opportunities for smes. i supported this report because it seeks to promote gender equality and the participation of women in this sector.
written. ‒ the digital age has brought new challenges and opened up unprecedented opportunities. the digital revolution has brought new ways of communicating, brand new, immediate and instant access to information, and it has opened up space for new and efficient ways of learning and doing business. however, the digital revolution has brought with it many dangers. it is undeniable that the digital age is changing our lives completely - unfortunately not only in a positive way, but it also poses a real threat - especially for women and children. the internet is a platform for unprecedented hate speech and discrimination, a completely free and uncontrolled platform for the promotion of distorted values and unacceptable ideologies. the internet is a service that makes human trafficking easier and more accessible and even acceptable in some forms. i did not support this report because i think it is quite flawed and not focused on the real problems and dangers that the digital age brings. i think we need to do more, first of all to protect basic human rights online, and then we can talk about the benefits of the internet for empowering women. while it is possible for a woman to sell her body or her reproductive organs online, we cannot talk about empowering women in the digital age.
‒ the european parliament, taking into account articles 2 and 3 (3), second subparagraph, of the treaty on european union (teu) and article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), encourages the commission and the council to make full use of the potential of the information society, ict and the internet in order to promote the empowerment of women, women's rights and freedoms and gender equality, irrespective of age, disability, genetic identity, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, colour of skin, social or ethnic origin, religion or belief or economic status. i call on the eu institutions and member states to include a gender perspective in all digital initiatives and to recognise digital power as the driving force behind a new, stronger wave of gender awareness and gender equality. i hope that the commission will ask member states to make greater efforts to prosecute homophobic and transphobic crimes occurring online, and to properly apply the eu legislation in force in this area and in the area of victims' rights. i would commend the motion for a resolution of parliament on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age, especially because of the importance that new media can have in strengthening women's participation in democratic processes.
written. ‒ i supported the report on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age as further efforts are needed to fight for gender equality in a complex digital world. the digital single market, adopted in may 2015, represents a strong potential for the european union's economy, job creation and improvement of public services. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the digital single market strategy needs to be complemented by the needs of women and girls in order to achieve equal representation of women in the ict sector, increase the number of women in senior positions in ict enterprises, which currently stands at a paltry 8%, provide support to women entrepreneurs in the ict sector and increase the number of women completing ict training. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, appliances and equipment, as well as the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture, furniture and appliances, and the purchase, hire, hire or rental of furniture, appliances and equipment, as well as the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture, furniture and appliances, and the purchase, hire, hire, hire and rental of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire and maintenance of furniture, furniture and appliances, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire and repair of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the maintenance and repair of furniture, furniture and appliances, and of equipment and equipment for the purchase, hire, maintenance, repair, alteration, remodeling, repair, refurbishment, repair, and/or replacement of furniture and equipment.
written. ‒ we live in a digital age and access to the internet is one of the basic needs of both men and women. however, as regards employment, the ict sector is dominated by men. such work environments discourage many women from the ict sector, and this is also due to gender stereotypes that make it difficult for women to develop their full potential. i support the european parliament's report because i believe that improving digital skills for women would go a long way towards reducing gender inequalities. girls should be inspired from an early age to develop an interest in this field and to pursue careers in engineering and technology. it would benefit the whole society. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on gender equality and the gender pay gap. women need to be the leaders of the digital age, and this can only be achieved with the political will of the whole society.
the reporter. madam president, more and more people live in fear that modernization and development will destroy their tradition and way of life. their regions are largely passive, with a shrinking population of young people who should be the bearers of development, and new development strategies are seen as foreign, unadapted and often imposed. our responsibility to these people is great. we must not allow them to live in fear and be mere observers of the development process, but we must involve them to the maximum. the commission should also be able to provide the member states with guidance on how to address the lack of trust and administrative barriers between different levels of governance. the commission and the member states should provide additional support, in particular in the form of training and advice, to cities with limited resources and capacity and thus difficult to bear the administrative burden of these development tools. experience shows that the biggest challenges facing local stakeholders are financial and administrative. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's reforms and the implementation of the reforms of the structural funds, in particular by means of the annual report on the implementation of the reforms. we must also combat the practice of excessive regulation, which creates unnecessary requirements and barriers at all levels, resulting in a higher financial and administrative burden for users. we want as many partners as possible to propose clld strategies before 31 december 2017, the deadline for submission of proposals. by then, we need to raise awareness, ensure capacity building of local actors and encourage the active participation of social and economic partners and civil society. in this context, it is particularly worrying that for some member states the clld represents a mere completion of bureaucratic formalities rather than a genuine bottom-up approach. parliament recognises the success of local action groups in managing projects and calls for more comprehensive funding and a broader scope. we welcome the participation of different partners in the lags, but only with the quality implementation of the existing legislative framework, which limits the possibility for any of the interest groups to have more than 49% of the voting rights, thus reducing the possibility of one interest group being sued or of a conflict of interest. community-led local development can be a major catalyst for employment, especially for young people, through the involvement of smes in the implementation of local development projects. given that youth unemployment is still very high in several member states, we consider it a priority that local and regional authorities, through tax and other incentives, ensure the conditions for the employment of young people. in implementing iti, it is also possible to achieve greater involvement of local partners and the tool itself should not be limited to urban areas. parliament considers that clld and iti must play an even more important role in the future cohesion policy and calls for bottom-up approach to become an integral part of iti.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, i would like to support the reports by mrs iotova and mrs tomašić, on behalf of the alde group, because in these reports we see everything that is necessary today to help those citizens who live in the mountains, but also all the problems we face in local communities. 30% of the territory, almost 20% of the population living in the mountains expect us to take a series of concrete steps and i can say that cohesion policy is perhaps the most successful and effective policy of the european union so far, regardless of all the problems we face in implementing this cohesion policy, and of course the significant problems are precisely in mountain areas and in a number of local communities. the experience we have, i am speaking specifically with the lags, the specific experience i had personally when we set up the lags in istria, only shows how much this policy is geared towards local communities, which is an extremely important european policy. where people who are solving concrete common problems meet with ngos, people who are directly interested in the development of their area, this is a priceless wealth that we have, and we must provide faster procedures, we must also provide easier access to resources so that it is precisely local communities that can influence their own development, rather than having tutors in their development. so i want to stress the need to fully respect the principle of subsidiarity, which is a value of the european union, and to give local and regional authorities as much weight as possible.
mr president, in the resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy, we point out that cohesion policy has changed significantly for the 2014-2020 perspective. a lot of new things have been introduced, from thematic concentration to results orientation, the need for greater coordination, especially with economic policy ex-ante prerequisites and everything else. innovation means improvement, but it also requires new knowledge, additional work on preparation. the countries had to program differently and apply a new approach, set up new governance structures, new procedures, new information systems. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's financial contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance is limited to eur 5 billion. i heard commissioner vella say that because of n+3 the risk of decommitment is lower because we used to have an n+2 rule, however, the question is whether countries really have an n+3 rule given that the advance is much lower than the previous perspective and that the operational programmes were adopted too late and the ex-ante conditions are still not met. this resolution does not seek to blame or seek to blame anyone for the delay in implementation and the risk of loss of funds. we're not asking for any more funding or an extension of the n+3 rule. we are asking for: an accelerated simplification of rules and procedures, bringing them closer to the needs of end-users, more communication to increase the visibility of cohesion policy among citizens, an early start of programming so that the system is ready to start implementing in practice in the first year of the perspective, and not just theoretically in the regulation. the first message is that we seek political stability. we cannot expect early implementation if we introduce completely new programming rules and implementation of new governance structures, new procedures, new information systems for each perspective. the second message is that member states need to work on improving their financial management systems, tackling the problems that hinder the preparation and implementation of projects, which are often deeply structural in the member states themselves, and therefore carry out structural reforms, become faster and more flexible and strengthen administrative capacities. in addition, the resolution calls for a greater role for national parliaments and for better coordination and communication between us, the european parliament, the european commission and the member states. finally, we are proud of cohesion policy and want to make it even closer to our citizens.
mr president, cohesion policy reflects one of the european union's most visible and useful added values: solidarity. based on quality projects, we help the less developed. it is cohesion policy that has proved to be the most important source of public investment in times of austerity. the facts are clear: in the last budget period, gdp per capita in the so-called convergence regions increased by 2.2% and 600 000 new jobs were generated. 200 000 smes and 77 800 'start-ups' received direct financial assistance. more than 80 000 research projects have been supported. cohesion policy should therefore be continued in the next budgetary period: thematically focused, with a better urban/rural balance, simpler procedures, greater efficiency and better communication with citizens. i support the proposed measures to speed up the implementation of the cohesion policy and the reports we are discussing today. but i do think that we should talk about our islands as much as we talk about the mountainous areas. the recommendations of the recently adopted resolution on the islands should therefore be taken into account.
the reporter. mr president, mr vella, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has taken part in the preparation of this report and all those who will support it in the vote. in order to restore citizens' trust in the institutions and ensure the sustainable development of europe while preserving our specificities, it is of the utmost importance to give local people the opportunity to participate directly in shaping the future of their communities, and i hope that most colleagues and the commission will recognise this. i will continue to monitor the implementation of these development tools in the member states and to help the lags in croatia because this approach to local community development is a real guarantee of a sustainable future in line with the wishes of our citizens.
written. mountain regions cover about 30% of the total territory of the european union. the extreme conditions and remoteness of mountain areas face problems such as depopulation and population ageing, which could disrupt the natural generation cycle. there are considerable differences between mountain regions, which i believe is why there is a need for coordinated policy and sector action, both between different mountain areas and within individual mountain areas. due to their specificities, in particular the numerous and diverse renewable energy sources and their dependence on resource efficiency and energy efficiency, mountain regions can contribute to the development of new technologies and innovation in general. the eu regional policy does not have a clear definition of mountain regions, and the definition used under the european agricultural fund for rural development is not appropriate for cohesion policy and cannot be used as such for the effective management of that policy. i therefore believe that we must create a special approach to mountain regions within eu policies. these regions need help to overcome challenges such as climate change, economic development, employment, environmental protection and other similar challenges.
madam president, i'm glad that we gave a big and complex no to the nord stream 2 project tonight, because our goal is not to help diversify the supply routes from russia, but to diversify the energy sources in europe and reduce our dependence on imports. energy dependence is very easily transformed into economic dependence, economic dependence into social dependence, and so the europe we want to make the leader and the driver of development, with the nord stream 2 project, we are pushing it in the other direction. i would like to highlight something else: the european commission has identified 195 key energy infrastructure projects. these are projects that we will contribute to the achievement of the strategic objectives of the energy union, and with this nord stream 2 project we are also questioning the value and implementation of these energy projects, the preparation of which we have already started financing from the cef. we don't want that.
mr. president, after last week's leak, the ttip negotiations have been heated again. citizens have the right to information and to express their opinion on the basis of it. we who ultimately make decisions with the media have a special responsibility. however, even in this case, populism is damaging because, in addition to being a particular interpretation of the facts, it weakens our bargaining position. and it should put the well-being of citizens and the protection of our standards at its core, in particular regulatory cooperation, social and labour rights and food security. in addition to those mentioned in the context of the negotiations, croatia's priorities are access to sources of financing for smes, the removal of existing administrative barriers to exports, the transfer of product protection labels, compliance with the precautionary rules on gmos and the abolition of visas for our citizens. european negotiators need to firmly defend the eu standards that we have been creating together for so long. it's up to us to support them in a constructive way. only if we succeed in doing so will ttip have my support.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 on the common organisation of the market in bananas (oj l 347, 20.12.2018, p. i therefore call on the european commission to define specific programmes in existing eu funds programmes that would facilitate and enable better energy efficiency, which means simplifying the procedure for using these funds and also an information campaign that would enable people living in these areas to know more and use these funds more easily so that energy efficiency in these areas is also high enough and thus allows people to live better.
mr president, at the end of april, croatia was hit by a severe cold followed by frost and the fruit, vegetable and vineyards in central and northwestern croatia were almost completely destroyed. the current damage, which has affected 90-100% of the forecast fruit harvest and up to 90% of the grape and vegetable harvest, is estimated at around eur 15 million. in addition to croatia, this sudden cooling has caused unprecedented damage to our neighbors in hungary, slovenia, and austria. after last year's crisis caused by the russian embargo, which is still in force and has hit european fruit and vegetable producers, this elementary disaster is a new blow and could mean the end of them if we do not help them urgently. we ask the european commission to provide financial support to farmers affected by the elementary disaster and to respond positively to affected member states requesting assistance. only in this way can we save european fruit and vegetable production and protect european consumers from price increases that could result from a lack of domestic production.
madam president, youth unemployment in the republic of croatia, where i come from, is 43%. this has motivated me to spend the last two years organizing a large number of meetings with young people, conferences, round tables. my goal was to hear how they see and feel about our youth policy, whether they feel in their daily life that it is a guarantee for young people and whether it has helped them. what they told me is a little bit overwhelming. few people have really felt these measures, and those who have have say the following: we went to further education through erasmus, we trained professionally thanks to the youth guarantee, and in the end we are still unemployed and we are looking for our future somewhere outside both the republic of croatia and europe. what we need to do is listen to them more because they have good ideas about what measures and activities to implement and we need to stop asking young people to adapt to our measures and adapt the measures to the needs of young people.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union, as this does not affect the substance of the proposal but is mainly a matter of technical amendments. the content of the codified acts is not changed, but they are simplified and made clearer and more accessible to citizens. in this context, i support the interinstitutional agreement allowing for an accelerated procedure for the rapid adoption of codified acts, and the commitment of the commission staff to codify acts after a maximum of ten amendments. i also believe that it is important to enable citizens to have easy access to their rights and to ensure that they are guaranteed.
written. ‒ the application of the safeguard clause against subsidised imports from non-eu countries is a major safeguard for the economic interests of the union and contributes to the maintenance and creation of jobs. over time, the provisions have been changed several times. this has led to the fact that the various provisions are scattered across the different acts making it very difficult to find the rules that are in force. the advisory group consisting of the legal services of the commission, the council and the european parliament proposed a clearer codification of the text without substantial changes. i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union which concerns the codification of the text. i consider it very important to simplify and better codify the text so that it is more accessible to all citizens of the union.
‒ council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community details the conditions determining the existence of the subsidy, the principles governing the applicability of countervailing duties levied in order to offset any subsidy granted directly or indirectly, on the manufacture, production, export or transport of any product whose release for free circulation in the eu causes injury, and the criteria to be applied for the calculation of the amount of countervailing subsidies. given that the european commission adopted on 1 april 1987 the rule that all acts after at least ten amendments must be codified and that the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 decided on an accelerated method of working on codification, i consider that the codification of this act is necessary in order to contribute to its correct application and at the same time to greater legal certainty for the stakeholders to whom the acts relate.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of the position at first reading, adopting the commission proposal adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the advisory group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has examined the proposal for a council regulation codifying council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community and has unanimously concluded that a correction to the second subparagraph of article 9 (2) of regulation (ec) no 597/2009 should be published. in the existing text of that subparagraph, the word 'producer' should be deleted. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the conditions for the exercise of the power conferred on it by this regulation. the advisory working party therefore unanimously concluded, on the basis of its examination of the proposal, that the proposal constitutes a straightforward codification of existing texts without any substantial changes and i therefore support such a proposal by the commission.
written. ‒ the eu market is the largest single market in the world, where consumers and investors enjoy the many benefits of the free movement of people, goods, services and money. the commission has not established that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. i supported the report by mrs hautala because it is crucial to make export opportunities flood while reasonably restricting market access. the commission should also be able to provide the union with a comprehensive and up-to-date overview of the implementation of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and its related provisions. the continuation of the modernisation project is of great importance in order to improve the current eu trade defence system to the benefit of all stakeholders. i also welcome the continuation of education and the further development of bilateral contacts with industries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the proposal concerns only the codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. following the examination of the proposal for a council regulation codifying council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community, the advisory working party unanimously concluded that a correction to the second subparagraph of article 9 (2) of regulation (ec) no 597/2009 should be published. it is proposed to delete the word 'manufacturer' in the existing text of that subparagraph. i agree with this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union, as the content of the regulation will remain essentially the same and the qualitative change will result in a more clearly worded regulation.
written. ‒ the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. following the examination of the proposal for a council regulation codifying council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community, the advisory working party unanimously concluded that a correction to the second subparagraph of article 9 (2) of regulation (ec) no 597/2009 should be published. in the existing text of that subparagraph, the word 'producer' should be deleted. i agree with this proposal for codification because i consider it to be a qualitative change aimed at a more clearly worded regulation. the content of the regulation remains essentially the same.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union, as this proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. the european commission attaches great importance to simplifying and explaining union law in order to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens and to enable them to exercise their specific rights conferred by it. however, this objective cannot be achieved while many provisions have been amended several times and distributed in different acts and must therefore be sought partly in the original and partly in the amending acts. that is why i consider it extremely important to codify the rules, which are often changed.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union because i believe that the european union has an obligation to provide its citizens with easy access to legal acts. the scattered nature of the provisions in the various acts leads to the need for the rapid adoption of codified acts in order to make the provisions clearer and more certain. i consider that the codification of this regulation will contribute to legal certainty and reduce the need for research activities when searching for the rules in force. the consolidated acts do not change their content, but they are simplified and made clearer and more accessible to citizens.
written. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009, an anti-dumping duty may be imposed on any dumped product imported from third countries, the release of which causes injury or threatens to cause injury, in order to protect the common market and producers in the european union. having examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009, the advisory working group unanimously concluded that the proposal is limited to a straightforward codification of existing legislative texts. this proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes and adopts a first reading position, which is why i supported the report.
‒ council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community has been amended several times in the past. a commission decision adopted in 1987 established the rule that after a dozen amendments to a given act, it must be codified, that is to say, the original text in the new edition must be textually cleared of any obsolete wording which has been amended in the meantime, in order to avoid possible confusion and inadvertent application of obsolete rules. given that this is an act containing anti-dumping rules, explaining the procedure for initiating and conducting a dumping investigation, regulating the imposition of provisional measures, the imposition and collection of anti-dumping duties, i consider the proposed codification necessary as it not only contributes to greater legal certainty for the stakeholders concerned but also contributes to the correct application of this act.
written. ‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, and in particular point 4 thereof, the consultative working group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met on 13 november 2014 to consider, inter alia, the above proposal submitted by the commission. at that meeting, the advisory working party, composed of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union and concluded unanimously that the proposal is limited to a straightforward codification of existing legislative texts, without substantial changes. i support the opinion of the advisory working party and adopt the position at first reading.
written. ‒ anti-dumping duties are one of the basic mechanisms of the european union's trade policy, aimed at protecting the market and domestic producers from lower-priced imports. the european commission, in cooperation with the member states, should continue its efforts to collect data in the form of indicators or ranges in order to get a better picture of the current situation. many problems that have arisen in previous years remain unresolved, in particular the widespread application of safeguard measures and the questionable way in which third countries use this instrument. the transparency criterion should be retained, as otherwise it would be contrary to the eu strategy on open markets and fair trade market access. the commission established the volume of imports from the prc on the basis of the data provided by the cooperating exporting producers. i therefore support the report by ms hautala because there is a need to persevere in efforts to promote the high standards applied by the eu when using those instruments. the commission should also be able to provide technical assistance to the member states in the event of a dispute between the union and a third country.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the advisory working group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met on 13 november 2014 to consider the above proposal submitted by the commission. the advisory working party, after having examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union, unanimously concluded that the proposal is limited to a straightforward codification of existing legislative texts, thus excluding substantive changes. i agree with this proposal for codification because this qualitative change will result in a more clearly worded regulation, while the content of the regulation will remain essentially the same.
the advisory working group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met on 13 november 2014 to consider the above proposal submitted by the commission. the advisory working party, after having examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union, unanimously concluded that the proposal is limited to a straightforward codification of existing legislative texts, without any substantive changes. i agree with this proposal for codification because i consider it to be a qualitative change aimed at a more clearly worded regulation. the content of the regulation remains essentially the same.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the codification of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, this proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. i consider that the new proposal will ensure the correct and transparent application of the rules of the 1994 anti-dumping agreement. however, this proposal will transmit the content of the acts to be codified in full and will bring them together in a single act, with only those formal amendments necessary for the codification.
written. ‒ i support this first eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, which will strengthen cooperation and contribute to liberia's recovery after the extremely difficult years of conflict and civil war.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and the implementation protocol thereto, as it is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and thus promotes the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture. the agreement also contributes to the fight against unreported, illegal and unregulated fishing, which is one of the objectives of the union, while at the same time supporting economically sustainable fisheries. i believe that this type of cooperation leads to mutual benefits, namely the union provides technical and financial assistance to liberia, improves fisheries management in west africa and the eu exercises rights to fish stocks in the liberian exclusive economic zone. therefore, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia and the eu provides financial and technical support to the eu in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in liberia's exclusive economic zone. european union fleets have been fishing for tropical tuna in the gulf of guinea since the 1950s and currently account for 10% of the world's tuna catch. the agreement could further extend the network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa. the new protocol enhances cooperation between the eu and the republic of liberia to promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy. the fisheries sector currently accounts for 3% of total gdp and has the potential to make a significant contribution to liberia's development. the sectoral support to be made available under the protocol will assist the republic of liberia in implementing its national strategy in the field of fisheries, scientific research, small-scale coastal fishing as well as monitoring, control and surveillance of fisheries and combating illegal fishing, which is why i have supported this report.
written. ‒ this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first that the european union will conclude with the republic of liberia, which has 570 kilometres of coastline along the atlantic ocean. its exclusive economic zone of 246 152 km2 is a habitat for bottom and pelagic fish species, including tuna and tuna-like species. given that the eu and liberia have been cooperating for many years through multilateral agreements and that the liberian authorities are cooperating intensively with the eu in the fight against iuu fishing, i believe that the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement will be beneficial for both parties. the eu vessels may catch 6 500 tonnes of tuna per year for which liberia will receive eur 3,25 million over five years, and liberia shall not provide any other state fishing on the high seas with more favourable conditions than the eu. the financial contribution shall be divided equally between the amount for access to fishery resources and the amount for support to liberia's sectoral fisheries policy. i believe that the positive impact of sectoral support measures on the local economy and the coastal community will be felt in the long term. the accompanying financial packages also contribute to the fight against illegal fishing, which is unfortunately present and which we must combat.
written. ‒ i take into account the recommendations and opinions of these committees and give my consent to the conclusion of the agreement and its protocol. in recent years, the european union has signed several sustainable fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with 'third countries'. fisheries partnership agreements provide the eu with financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in the exclusive economic zone of the partner country. since 2014, and the reform of the common fisheries policy, these agreements have been referred to as sustainable fisheries partnership agreements. this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first that the european union will conclude with the republic of liberia, which has 570 kilometres of coastline along the atlantic ocean. its exclusive economic zone of 246 152 km2 is a habitat for bottom and pelagic fish species, including tuna and tuna-like species. i agree with the opinion of the rapporteur, mr jarosław wałęsa, and consider that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia and its implementation protocol are in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, sustainable fisheries management and aquaculture activities and of great mutual benefit to both parties.
written. ‒ in the light of the reports we have supported on the functioning and organisation of fishing zones with african countries such as cape verde, madagascar, mauritania and, in particular, guinea-bissau, which is geographically closest to liberia, it is necessary to regulate fishing zones and relations with liberia. the aim is also, among other things, to create a stronger institutional framework for those multilateral agreements that we have already partially implemented and through which we also cooperate with liberia. the commission has also proposed that the liberian authorities should be given the opportunity to present their observations on the implementation of the new rules. the commission has also received comments from the liberian authorities. given that the objectives of the liberian fisheries policy are consistent with the objectives of the eu fisheries policy and that liberia is demonstrating a clear willingness to respect the recommendation of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, i support the recommendation of mr wałęsa to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement and its implementation protocol to the said sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and the implementation protocol to that agreement, as i consider that the main objective of liberia's fisheries policy is in line with the objectives of the eu common fisheries policy. the commission has also received comments from the liberian authorities on the implementation of the tacs for the liberian stock of bluefin tuna. the eu has a strong interest in tuna fishing in liberian waters and the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia would contribute to enhancing monitoring, control and surveillance and better fisheries management in the region. the committee draws attention to the fact that no consultation of liberian shareholders was carried out during the preparation of the pre-negotiated evaluation and notes that this should be corrected in the future. the commission notes that the liberian authorities have not provided any evidence that the fishing industry is in a position to provide adequate and reliable information to the liberian authorities. the committee on budgets is of the opinion that the protocol enhances cooperation between the eu and the republic of liberia to promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy. it provides in particular for the tracking of vessels by satellite tracking systems and the transmission of catch data by electronic means.
written. ‒ in recent years, the european union has signed several sustainable fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries. the objective of such agreements is to provide financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in the exclusive economic zone of the partner country. the republic of liberia has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean and an exclusive economic zone that is home to bottom and pelagic fish species, including tuna and tuna-like species. the eu and the liberian authorities have intensified their cooperation in the area of combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. illegal fishing intensified during the years of civil war when foreign vessels were drawing fish stocks from liberian waters, reducing the potential national income that liberian fishermen could earn. in the light of the above, i support this report as the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia would, inter alia, help the eu to achieve its objectives in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and to extend the objectives of the common fisheries policy in the area of sustainable fisheries management and aquaculture activities.
written. ‒ this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first that the european union will conclude with the republic of liberia, which has 570 kilometres of coastline along the atlantic ocean. its exclusive economic zone of 246 152 km2 is a habitat for bottom and pelagic fish species, including tuna and tuna-like species. the eu and liberia cooperate through multilateral agreements and through intergovernmental and regional fisheries organisations. the liberian authorities are cooperating intensively with the eu in the fight against iuu fishing. the agreement provides that eu vessels may catch 6500 tonnes of tuna per year for a sum of eur 3,25 million over five years. the financial contribution shall be divided equally between the amount for access to fishery resources and the amount for support to liberia's sectoral fisheries policy. i support the draft resolution because i believe that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, sustainable fisheries management and aquaculture activities and of great mutual benefit to both parties. i also believe that it strengthens cooperation between the union and liberia and, more generally, between the union and west africa, which has important tuna fishing areas.
written. ‒ the republic of liberia has a 570 km atlantic coastline and a 246 152 km economic belt, which is home to bottom-dwelling and pelagic fish species, including tuna and tuna-like species. i consider that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the liberian fishing zone. this is the first agreement to be concluded by the european union with the republic of liberia, strengthening cooperation between the union and liberia and, more generally, the union and west africa, where important tuna fishing areas are located. i believe that the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia will help the european union to achieve its objectives in terms of combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, but also to extend the objectives of the common fisheries policy in terms of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
written. ‒ i support the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, which is much better than the previous one, especially in light of the bitter experiences of the recent past when mauritania opened access to foreign fleets at the same time as it closed access to european fleets. the duration of the agreement of four years will also ensure greater stability for the fishing fleets in mauritanian waters.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years, as it represents the same improvement as the previous one and is based on a higher degree of transparency. the financial contributions paid by the eu to mauritania allow the union fleets access to the mauritanian exclusive fishing zone while addressing certain shortcomings that have challenged the implementation of the previous agreement. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the marine environment are respected. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's fishing opportunities and the fishing opportunities of the member states.
written. ‒ the protocol, which is provisionally applicable as of 16 november 2015, allows eu fishermen to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of four years. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013, the protocol aims to offer fishing opportunities to european union vessels in mauritanian waters, taking into account available scientific assessments, opinions and recommendations on the limits of the available surplus. the positive element of the new protocol is the establishment of a better balance between the financial contribution and the fishing opportunities. the commission has also received comments from the french authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the union's common fisheries policy. the extension of the protocol to four years will ensure greater stability for the fleet fishing in mauritanian waters. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i supported the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and mauritania on fishing opportunities and financial contribution. as we know, unfortunately, the mauritanian economy is facing economic challenges and is focused mainly on mining and fishing, with fishing representing 5~10% of annual gdp. mauritania is among the countries whose territorial waters are rich in fish, but the opportunity to develop the economy with this natural resource is not sufficiently exploited and very little of the catch is landed in mauritian ports or processed locally. in view of these facts, i believe that this agreement will be of mutual benefit to both the eu and mauritania. in addition to the eur 55 million earned by mauritania by granting access to its fishing zone to the eu fishing fleet, this agreement provides for an additional eur 16,5 million in financial support to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and environmental protection in mauritania's marine and coastal protected areas, in line with european policies of environmental responsibility and sustainable fisheries development.
written. ‒ i take into account the recommendations and opinions of these committees and consent to the conclusion of the protocol. mauritania is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the world, ranking 161st on the 2014 human development index. according to usaid, 42% of the country's population lives below the poverty line. the new protocol introduces improvements to the highly migratory fleet, which will allow those vessels to fish under conditions similar to those applied in other third countries, given that control measures and access are harmonised in the protocol and other tuna agreements. the commission has also introduced further substantial improvements to clarify the methodology for applying the rule requiring european vessels to give up 2% of their pelagic catches to persons in need. the european union shall ensure that the financial contribution of the union to the european union contribution to the financing of the european union contribution is limited to the amount of eur 50000000 in accordance with the financial regulation. i support the conclusion of this protocol because i believe it will contribute to the export of the eu model of environmental, economic and social sustainability that the eu promotes in its common fisheries policy.
‒ the european commission has negotiated the renewal of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania. i supported the recommendation of mr mate on the signing of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania, as the objective of this protocol is to offer fishing opportunities to eu vessels in mauritanian waters, taking into account the available scientific assessments. the union and mauritania shall cooperate in the implementation of this decision, in particular by developing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries strategy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in mauritania's fishing zone, in the interest of both parties. the sectoral support was increased compared to the previous period in order to assist mauritania in setting up a new national strategy in the field of sustainable development of fishing activities, in particular in the context of scientific and technical cooperation, training, fisheries control, environmental protection and infrastructure development.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years, as i consider it to be in the interest of both parties. the new agreement addresses some of the shortcomings that undermined the usefulness of the previous protocol, namely: the number of mauritanian personnel required to be present on board european vessels, the non-discrimination of the european fleet in relation to the other fleets, the public disclosure of all public or private agreements by mauritania with third countries and the provision of preferential access to the available surpluses of the european fleet. the agreement with mauritania should serve as a model for future agreements between the european union and other third countries and the rapporteur therefore encourages the commission to adopt a transparency-based approach in all bilateral negotiations. the reinforcement of support for local mauritanian fisheries demonstrates the european union's determination to help develop the fleets of the countries with which it has agreements and its desire to export the model of environmental, economic and social sustainability advocated in its fisheries policy.
the european union and mauritania signed a new protocol allowing fishermen from the eu area to fish in mauritian waters for a period of four years on 10 july 2015. the annual financial contribution to be paid by the eu to mauritania for the purpose of allowing european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone shall be eur 55 million, compared to eur 67 million under the previous protocol. the mauritanian authorities have also provided information on the number of mauritanian seamen on board the vessels of the european union. the mauritanian authorities have also provided information on the number of seamen on board the vessel, the number of seamen on board the vessel and the number of seamen on board the vessel. the protocol also contains some radical changes aimed at strengthening mutual trust and non-discrimination between the european fleet and the rest of the fleet, which should ensure that the conservation conditions imposed on the eu fleet are also applied to the rest of the fleet. i support this agreement because, in addition to being an improved version of the previous agreement, i believe it will contribute to eu fisheries and serve as an example for future agreements between the eu and other third countries.
the european union and mauritania initialled on 10 july 2015 a new protocol allowing eu fishermen to fish in mauritian waters for a period of four years. the annual financial contribution to be paid by the european union to that country for allowing european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone amounts to eur 55 million, compared to eur 67 million under the previous protocol. the eu has also provided a number of technical assistance to the mauritanian authorities in the area of maritime safety. the mauritanian authorities have also provided information on the number of seamen and the number of seamen on board. the protocol also contains some radical changes designed to strengthen mutual trust and non-discrimination between the european fleet and the rest of the fleet, which should ensure that the conservation conditions imposed on the eu fleet are also applied to the rest of the fleet. i support this agreement because i consider it to be a step forward compared to the previous ones. i also believe that the agreement with mauritania should serve as a model for future agreements between the european union and other third countries.
written. ‒ i supported the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years. this protocol contains amendments aimed at strengthening mutual trust and non-discrimination between the european fleet and other parties to the fleet. the commission notes that the mauritania authorities have not provided any information on the fishing activities of the european union fleet in the mauritanian fishing zone. i consider that the amendments to the technical measures and the establishment of a better balance between the financial contribution and the fishing opportunities are another positive element that will significantly improve the cost-benefit ratio of this agreement. the new protocol represents a major step forward in relation to the previous ones and should serve as a model for future agreements between the european union and third countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, because it enhances cooperation with korea in the field concerned and strengthens the union's technological capabilities. the exchange of information and experience and the establishment of an efficient and advanced satellite navigation system can definitely strengthen certain activities of major importance for the union, such as rescue operations and border control. the republic of korea has achieved significant results in the field of satellite systems and is an advanced country in the development of new technologies. i support this recommendation, although i consider it necessary to ensure the protection of the union's interests in all aspects of the agreement.
the republic of korea is an active user of satellite navigation services in various sectors, including transport, science and geodesy. the objective of this agreement is to support, facilitate and enhance cooperation between the european community and its member states and the republic of korea in cooperation on the civilian global navigation satellite system (gnss). i supported this report because this agreement seeks to encourage, facilitate and improve cooperation between partners in the civil global navigation satellite system.
the republic of korea is an active user of satellite navigation services in various sectors including transport, maritime, science and geodesy. this agreement seeks to encourage, facilitate and enhance cooperation between korea and the eu in the civilian application of global satellite navigation. the activities in which cooperation in satellite navigation is to be achieved are: radio spectrum use, scientific research and education, industrial cooperation, trade and market development, standards and certification, regulatory measures, safety and liability and cost recovery. this agreement is a continuation of the existing cooperation and the 2006 agreement, which in its current form does not include important elements of protection of sensitive technologies and components of the galileo system whose export and proliferation are prohibited by the legislation of the european union or of a member state. the commission has also concluded that the agreement does not cover the architecture of the galileo security system (in space, on the ground and in the user segment) or the exchange of confidential information relating to satellite navigation and the galileo system. in view of the need to continue the existing cooperation, to improve the accessibility of services, but also to protect sensitive european technologies, i support the proposal for an agreement and have supported the recommendation for its conclusion.
written. ‒ while i support the adoption of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, i regret that i cannot take part in the vote on the matter being led by the enf parliamentary group. regardless of the handling of the enf group's cases, i will not stand in the way of the adoption of this treaty, which aims to strengthen eu cooperation in world civil satellite navigation. the sectors in which cooperation in world civil satellite navigation will be possible are: scientific research and education, industrial cooperation, trade and market development, security, etc.
written. ‒ i welcome the continuation of cooperation with the republic of korea under the galileo programme. korea is a very important partner of the european union in asia and a country with enviable technological potential and infrastructure capabilities. further development of cooperation in the field of civilian global positioning systems will increase the security of citizens, but more importantly, will stimulate the development of industries dependent on the rapid exchange of information, primarily through the monitoring of the situation on the ground and the transfer of new knowledge. as part of horizon 2020, the eu has committed itself to developing enviable technological capabilities to take the lead in areas of industrial and scientific excellence. the future therefore also needs to be in greater interaction with all countries willing and able to act together with the eu in the above-mentioned programming directions. i supported the recommendation of ms buonanno on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) with korea, taking into account that korea has adequate capabilities in the field of space technology and applications and actively uses satellites in various sectors, including transport, fleet management, science and geodesy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european parliament has published a draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the european union and its member states and the republic of korea and has given its consent to the conclusion of that agreement. taking into account the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i support this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament enhancing cooperation with the republic of korea.
‒ the european parliament has published a draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the european union and its member states and the republic of korea. parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of this agreement. i support this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament because i believe that in this way we are encouraging, facilitating and improving cooperation between the european union and the republic of korea.
the republic of korea has adequate capabilities in the field of space technology and actively uses satellite navigation services in various sectors, including transport, fleet management, science and geodesy. bulgaria, croatia and romania should become parties to the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system by concluding a protocol in accordance with article 6 (2) of the act concerning the conditions of accession of the republic of bulgaria, romania and the republic of croatia respectively and the adjustments to the treaties on which the european union is founded. given that the member states of the european union that are signatories to the agreement and the republic of korea have completed their procedures for the entry into force of the agreement, i have endorsed the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on new tools for territorial development in cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (clld), as i was involved in the preparation of this document as a shadow rapporteur and i support the application of these two new tools in cohesion policy. member states should be encouraged to prepare strategies to strengthen the implementation of clld and iti by accessing multi-fund funding to create more effective regional and local development strategies. it is necessary for the commission and the member states to develop targeted training activities for regional and local stakeholders on clld and iti. in the implementation of iti, it is essential that local partners play a leading role in the preparation of the iti territorial development strategy and are fully involved in the responsibilities associated with management, supervision and audit.
written. ‒ the report focuses on new, innovative instruments in cohesion policies that can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, creating quality local jobs, sustainable development and achieving the europe 2020 objectives. two new initiatives under the iti and clld tools can play an important role in adapting to demographic change and correcting imbalances in regional development. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (the 'european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states'). in implementing integrated territorial investments (iti), it is essential that local partners play a leading role in the preparation of the territorial development strategy and are involved in management, monitoring and auditing. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. to that end, it is important to combine financial instruments, in particular the european social fund and the european regional development fund. strengthening regional and local structures is key to the full implementation of economic, social and territorial cohesion policy, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ community-led local development and integrated territorial investment are innovative tools that some member states will be implementing for the first time in the form proposed and which can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, the creation of quality local jobs, sustainable development and the objectives of european strategies, all of which i warmly welcome. the new initiatives under these instruments represent significant changes in the ability of local actors to combine funding sources and plan well-targeted local initiatives. as the european union's policies for the period 2014-2020 enable and encourage the application of those approaches which are geared to specific areas and which aim to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion while promoting territorial governance, i support the report and have supported the proposed resolution.
written. ‒ i support the report on new tools for territorial development in cohesion policy for 2014-2020. i agree with the rapporteur that youth unemployment is one of the problems for the member states that needs to be tackled most urgently, together with the lack of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises. i would stress that these issues should be addressed as a priority in local and territorial development strategies. i also call on local and regional authorities to provide tax and other incentives to encourage youth employment and interregional youth mobility and, in partnership with training institutions, to give priority to vocational training. i welcome the creation of a new community-led local development (clld) tool that goes beyond the leader initiative, strengthens local communities and provides specific local solutions not only within the framework of the eafrd but also within the framework of other european structural and investment funds. i note that different management approaches can be used in the implementation of an 'integrated territorial investment' (iti), but nevertheless i consider it crucial that local partners have a leading role in the preparation of the iti territorial development strategy and are fully involved in the responsibilities associated with management, supervision and audit, thus ensuring that local stakeholders are genuinely accountable for iti interventions.
written. ‒ i support the report by mep tomašić which stresses the importance of a 'bottom-up' approach in shaping territorial cohesion policies through an assessment of the successes achieved so far, primarily through the tools of the integrated territorial investment initiative (iti) and the community-led local development initiative (clld). successful local and regional development strategies need to take into account a number of factors, such as adequate eu financial support, ways to tackle unemployment, financing for smes, strengthening technological capacities and social infrastructure. the report recalls that easier access for less developed regions to the iti and clld tools also implies greater eu engagement, primarily by providing access to funding for those regions and local communities that need it. such an approach also calls for a reduction in unnecessary regulation in relations between european institutional mechanisms and the local, regional and national levels, which should ultimately result in the achievement of the objectives set out in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy. i welcome the emphasis on the need to analyse the current shortcomings of the iti and clld tools in order to correct them and to make the tools effective in tackling some of the eu member states' burning problems, such as unemployment.
written. ‒ i supported the report on new tools for territorial development in cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (clld), as iti and clld, as innovative tools in cohesion policy, can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, sustainable development, local job creation and the europe 2020 objectives. the report considers that clld opens up various opportunities for urban and suburban areas and should be an integral part of urban development strategies, including cross-border cooperation. i also believe that it strengthens the local community and provides specific local solutions within all the european structural and investment funds. the commission notes that the iti should not be limited to urban areas only, but should also cover geographical areas such as urban districts, metropolitan areas, urban-rural, sub-regional or cross-border areas. the candidates for financing activities through the itu mechanism in the republic of croatia, which was introduced with the aim of strengthening cities as drivers of economic activities, are seven cities with the highest population concentration, namely - zagreb, split, rijeka, osijek, slavonski brod, zadar and pula. the itu mechanisms are expected to provide funding to four cities, depending on their urban development strategies.
‒ territorial cohesion is one of the fundamental objectives of the european union and cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 enables and encourages the application of integrated approaches focused on specific areas, all with the aim of fostering economic, social and territorial cohesion and promoting territorial governance. integrated approaches are therefore important as tools that target specific areas and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public intervention by meeting the specific needs of the area and contributing to its attractiveness. in order to make economic, social and territorial cohesion policy complete, it is important to strengthen regional and local structures. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. however, it should be borne in mind that local stakeholders need technical and financial assistance at regional, national and eu level. i support this report because, in addition to the above, i believe that community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti) should play an even more important role in future cohesion policy.
‒ territorial cohesion is one of the fundamental objectives of the european union. cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 shall enable and encourage the application of integrated approaches, targeted at specific areas, aiming to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion while promoting territorial governance. the integrated approaches targeted at specific areas are designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public intervention by meeting the specific needs of the area and contributing to its attractiveness. parliament stresses the need to combat excessive regulation which creates additional requirements and obstacles at national, regional and local level. in order to make visible progress towards achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the revision of that strategy and the multiannual financial framework should pay greater attention to regional and local contexts and to the specific circumstances of the areas concerned. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that these approaches will play an even more important role in the future cohesion policy of the european union.
written. ‒ i support this report on the harmonisation of statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. the aim of this alignment is to better predict future crises. the poor quality of statistics played a major role in the 2008 financial crisis, and it is therefore crucial to further harmonise the eu statistical collection and improve the quality of the data collected.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending the regulation on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures, as it revises the provisions of the regulation in question in order to achieve two objectives. first, the revision of the regulation improves the level of transparency of balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics, and those statistics, with the help of legal advances, become more reliable tools for economic policy decisions. on the other hand, it is necessary to align the regulation with the rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union which enable the commission to adopt delegated and/or implementing acts. therefore, i support this report.
‒ community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment are important for accurate economic forecasting and economic policy-making. the commission should also be able to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. the report highlights the need to update regulation (ec) no 184/2005 in order to improve transparency and detail in relation to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment by improving reporting and disclosure requirements, in order to take advantage of the latest innovations such as the global legal entity identifier and ultimate beneficial ownership registers. this should result in an increase in the analytical value of union statistics on foreign direct investment and contribute to the transparency and traceability of financial flows related to direct investment operations. improvement can be achieved by better and more regular reporting. the statistics should allow the distinction between new foreign investments and foreign direct investments that result in takeovers and do not increase gross investment in a member state or increase the working capital of the economic entity affected by the change of ownership over a given period. i supported the report because such international cooperation would make it easier to develop an appropriate conceptual framework for end-user ownership and to distinguish between new foreign direct investments and those resulting in takeovers.
written. ‒ i am always in favour of improving transparency and therefore support the proposal to strengthen the reporting and public disclosure obligations for statistics. the global legal entity identifier, the registers of ultimate property, the european joint register and the coordinated direct investment survey are useful innovations that will contribute to strengthening the disclosure obligation. i think it is important to be able to distinguish between new (greenfield) foreign direct investments and foreign direct investments resulting in takeovers in order to have a real picture of the economic situation in individual member states. we need new foreign direct investment to grow the economy and create jobs, and i hope there will be more and more of it, both in europe and in croatia. cooperation with the imf and the oecd can be improved and more productive, and the quality of national statistics should be raised to a higher level to avoid doubts about the accuracy of information. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend this regulation by supplementing it with new provisions. the proposals made in the report are of good quality and the proposal for a regulation will improve the production of statistics and i therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ i accept the proposal because i believe it will contribute to harmonising eu statistics on the balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, all of which are necessary to better anticipate future crises. i believe that the new procedure for the maintenance of statistics is more in line with the new legal regime that has emerged since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i also believe that the new way of conducting statistics will result in a better quality of the various eu statistics. given that the poor quality of statistics contributed to the 2008 financial crisis, i consider it crucial to further harmonise the collection of statistics in the eu and to improve the quality and reliability of the data collected.
written. ‒ the objective of this proposal is to amend the regulation laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers, and in the context of aligning the regulation on eu statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, with the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the implementing powers currently conferred on the commission by that regulation should be ensured by conferring on the commission the power to adopt delegated and/or implementing acts. this proposal confers powers on the commission to adopt delegated acts in cases where economic and technical changes require updating of data requirements, including deadlines for submission and revisions, extensions and deletions of data flows and where updating of definitions is necessary. i support the report by mr giegolde, which specifically sets out the commission's powers to establish an appropriate procedure for adopting measures under its powers.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments (bop), international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi) as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures, as reliable statistics are a key basis for the process of monitoring macroeconomic imbalances. since the adoption of the original regulation involving change fees, international capital flows have become more frequent and more complex. the following key points should therefore be addressed: increasing the transparency and granularity of gni, its and fdi statistics, and aligning regulation (ec) no 184/2005 with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. in order to increase the quality of balance of payments statistics, the commission (eurostat) should strengthen its cooperation with other international organisations that are the main providers of statistical services covered by this regulation, such as the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) and the international monetary fund (imf). the commission notes that regulation (ec) no 184/2005 needs to be updated to ensure its consistency with the rules on the functioning of the european union conferring powers on the commission to adopt delegated and/or implementing acts.
written. ‒ international capital flows have increased and become more complex, which means that it is increasingly difficult to monitor and ensure the traceability of such flows and to combat tax avoidance. the european commission regulation on statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is therefore an important part of the overall framework of the european union which aims to monitor economic developments in each member state and throughout the european union. reliable statistics in these areas are crucial for monitoring key features such as financial flows within and outside the european union. such statistics help to ensure the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the european union directives, as well as with the legal requirements that are part of the european economic governance framework. in view of the above, i support this report and consider that reliable statistics are a necessary basis for creating a quality surveillance process in the context of macroeconomic imbalance procedures.
‒ regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is part of the overall framework which monitors economic developments in each member state, but also in the european union as a whole. reliable statistics help to ensure that member states' implementation of their economic policies is consistent with clear union guidelines. more specifically, reliable statistics are a key basis for the surveillance process established in the context of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. since the adoption of the original regulation, international capital flows have increased and become more complex. in fact, it has become more difficult to control the flow of capital, which has opened up the door to tax evasion and similar illegal activities. i support this proposal to amend the regulation because i believe it will strengthen the control of the flow of money and reduce the number of illegal activities. i also believe that these amendments will improve the monitoring of the consistency of the member states in the implementation of their economic policies.
written. ‒ community statistics on balance of payments, international trade and foreign direct investment are essential for accurate economic forecasting and sound economic policy-making. i therefore support the empowerment of the commission to adopt delegated acts in order to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements in certain legislative acts and to take account of economic, social and technical developments. i am of the opinion that high-quality statistical data constitute a public service essential for academic research and informed public policy decision-making and that member states should provide the necessary data for the timely production of european union statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment in an appropriate form. as the aim of this proposal is to harmonise existing legislation in the new institutional context, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the report on the cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions. mountain regions have rarely been the focus of cohesion policy, and the natural resources and assets of these areas can contribute and provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially in the area of green jobs that contribute to the fight against climate change. the eu also has a role to play in the fight against poverty and social exclusion in mountain areas.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions, as i was involved in the preparation of this document as shadow rapporteur and i support the proposed text. the european union needs to develop in a uniform way, to enable the conditions for living in areas which do not offer the same conditions to the population as urban areas to survive. i believe that more attention should be paid to this and that the eu should have a special approach to mountain regions in its policies, given that they have obvious structural and other shortcomings.
written. ‒ the report highlights the importance of mountain regions, which represent a significant part of the eu's territory. many mountain regions are facing depopulation and population ageing, leading to lower social standards, increased unemployment, social exclusion and urban migration. this report focuses on how mountain regions can help achieve the europe 2020 objectives. mountain regions offer the opportunity to achieve eu objectives in the fields of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable management of natural resources. the natural resources of mountain areas can help create new jobs and increase employment in the eu, in particular green jobs, which can contribute to the fight against climate change. better policy coordination is needed as there are major differences between individual mountain regions. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. i supported this report because it seeks to improve access to and use of eu funds and policies for territorial development initiatives and cooperation at european level, with the aim of improving socio-economic living conditions in mountain areas.
written. ‒ mountain areas are rarely the focus of the union's cohesion policy, although they cover as much as 30% of europe's territory, a significant figure. they are important because the whole of europe depends on the services of these areas. i support this report because it focuses on how mountain areas can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the european union. i welcome the report's stated aim of promoting employment and economic progress in mountain regions by encouraging the market for eco-products, the labelling of products of mountain origin and the preservation of small, family-owned producers and farmers, and the sustainable development policy it sets out, which i regard as positive because it aims to retain young people, encourage milk production and use renewable energy sources. i hope that the goals set out in it will indeed soon be brought to life.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of a european parliament resolution on the subject of cohesion policy in mountain regions of the eu. i call on the commission to work on an 'eu mountain programme' which should be a framework to contribute to international, cross-border and interregional policies and i believe that this future programme should identify priorities for the development of these regions in order to better align sectoral policies, manage their funding opportunities under eu funds and achieve long-term sustainable inclusion policies. i stress the importance of achieving synergies between policies, instruments and sectors, which requires an integrated approach, and i highlight the valuable experience gained in implementing the alpine convention, which reconciles economic, social and environmental interests. i note that smes in mountain regions face serious difficulties resulting from poor accessibility, infrastructure and connectivity and lack of human resources, and i invite the commission to pay particular attention to the development of smes in mountain regions, especially in areas affected by natural and climatic disasters, and therefore i invite the member states to prioritise investments in infrastructure and services in mountain regions.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms iotova and a new, stronger eu approach to ensuring compliance enforcement in the development of regions, as provided for in article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the coordinated approach in these regions also means greater interdependence between the member states, which is what makes cohesion policy truly justified, but goes beyond the union's framework, making it truly relevant to the entire geographical area of the european continent. although technologically backward and inaccessible, such regions should not be neglected as they offer alternative access to agricultural goods and to environmental issues, economic development and the social dimensions of life. mountain and hill areas are habitable areas, but more effort is needed to channel resources, primarily from the european structural and investment funds, towards developing technologies and creating conditions conducive to the dynamics of maintaining social and economic conditions, which in turn would contribute to greater employment opportunities and the development of these regions.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions because mountain regions represent around 30% of the european union's territory and contribute to sustainable development, the fight against climate change, the conservation and protection of regional ecosystems and biodiversity, while also offering a wide range of opportunities to achieve the european union's objectives of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable use of their natural resources. cohesion policy often overlooks the importance of mountain regions because of the difficulties in investing in them in terms of lack of infrastructure and transport costs. the report places a strong emphasis on reducing poverty and social exclusion in mountain areas of the eu, but at the same time it states that it is mountain areas that can contribute to the objectives of the european union, such as europe 2020. mountain areas are under-utilised sources of new green jobs that not only help to employ eu citizens but also to combat climate change. the report calls for the use of renewable energy sources in mountain areas, but taking into account the environmental impact they can have. the commission also notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the union's macro-financial assistance, as set out in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the european atomic energy community, and in particular article 108 (3) thereof.
‒ mountain regions cover about 30% of the territory of the european union. the eu area depends on services linked to mountain ecosystems, which offer a range of opportunities to achieve european objectives in terms of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable use of its natural resources. despite the importance of mountain regions, there is no clear definition of mountain areas in eu regional policy and the definition used under the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) is not adequate for cohesion policy and cannot be used as such for the effective management of that policy. furthermore, significant differences are emerging between mountain regions, which require coordinated action by policies and sectors between and within different mountain areas. i support this report because i believe that mountain regions need special attention to help them cope with problems such as climate change, out-of-season unemployment, economic development and the prevention of natural disasters. in order to improve the coordination of the policies and measures concerned within the eu policies, mountain regions with clear structural deficiencies should be approached in a uniform manner. it is also important to establish a working definition of functional mountain regions in the context of cohesion policy which will complement the definition of mountain regions used in the context of the eafrd.
written. ‒ mountain regions cover about 30% of the total territory of the european union. the eu regional policy does not have a clear definition of mountain regions, and the definition used under the european agricultural fund for rural development is not appropriate for cohesion policy and cannot be used as such for the effective management of that policy. the extreme conditions and remoteness of these areas have structural deficiencies, to the extent that many mountain areas face depopulation and ageing, which could disrupt the natural generation cycle. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by member states on the environment and the environment protection. due to their specificities, in particular the numerous and diverse renewable energy sources and the dependence on resource efficiency and energy efficiency, mountain regions can contribute to the development of new technologies and innovation in general. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that there should be a special approach to mountain regions within eu policies. i believe that these regions need help to overcome challenges such as climate change, economic development, employment, environmental protection and other similar challenges.
written. ‒ the report on the cohesion policy in the mountain regions of the european union focuses on the development needs of mountain regions, as they are structurally disadvantaged and very often face depopulation and ageing, with a causal link to a decline in standards and quality of life. i believe that the european union should have a special approach to mountain regions and develop a programme that will be the framework for the union's strategy to achieve the long-term development of mountain areas. however, due to the specificity of the case of the carpathian mountain range, i consider that this mountain range cannot be included in the macro-regional strategy for the danube region. i voted in favour of the report, but i am not in favour of the report.
madam president, we've heard that there are different levels, different views on what the level of ambition is for this summit, but if there is consensus on one thing in the run-up to this summit in istanbul, it's the fact that the world's humanitarian system is overwhelmed, that it's chronically underfunded to meet all humanitarian needs. we heard from our colleague guerer how many millions of people around the world need some kind of humanitarian aid. we know that there are more refugees in the world today than there were immediately after world war ii. unfortunately, we are seeing a dramatic increase in humanitarian crises, and the particular challenge is that these are long-term crises. long-term displacement lasts on average more than 25 years for refugees and more than 10 years for 90% of internally displaced persons. it is in this context that i think it is important to put the emphasis on crisis education and i know that the commissioner is doing just that. in these protracted crises, the humanitarian aid system alone cannot meet all needs. forced displacement is not only a humanitarian challenge, it is also a political, developmental and economic human rights challenge. of course, there is also the phenomenon of irregular migration - we must also take into account the security dimension. finally, i welcome the commission's communication of april this year which seeks to progressively end the dependency on humanitarian aid in existing situations of forced displacement, by encouraging self-reliance and enabling displaced persons to live in dignity and contribute to the societies where they live.
madam president, the world has not faced such a large number of displaced persons since world war ii, so it is indeed the right time to hold the world humanitarian summit. there is no better place to hold a meeting like this than istanbul at the moment, because turkey is at the heart of the migration routes and is the european union's main partner in addressing the migration crisis. europe and the world must help to defuse the crisis and provide adequate care for refugees, and this meeting, i believe, will contribute to that. but i cannot help but notice that some parties use the tragic fates of people for political blackmail. it's not responsible or humane, so i hope that the world leaders at this meeting will address it as well. i'll take this opportunity to reiterate my position on the visa waiver for turkey. without meeting all the technical criteria, such a decision would be terribly irresponsible and would jeopardize the safety of our citizens.
madam president, madam commissioner, for many years this agreement was held up by a lack of political will, by a political atmosphere which was not inclined to go ahead, to launch negotiations, by a negative political atmosphere in latin america. political changes, especially in argentina, have changed that climate and it is now important that we here in the european union indicate our political will to move forward. i think that is precisely what we must do on this occasion, in this chamber. there are obviously areas which are more sensitive, such as agriculture, and that will have to be taken into account, and certainly will be taken into account by our negotiators during the negotiations, but we must seize this opportunity. since we are talking about argentina, brazil, countries that are football powers, i will make an allusion: when you lose an opportunity, a great chance, what happens is that they score a goal to you. we have to score that goal and win that game.
the adoption of the 2030 agenda was a great success for the european union. it was the culmination of a truly inclusive negotiation process involving not only un member states but also civil society and the private sector, but it was crucial that the eu had a unified position. and that's why it includes concepts like good governance, rule of law, inclusive institutions that were not part of the development agenda before. and you, mr vice president, madam high representative, were in new york when that agenda was passed, and now comes the hard part, which is the implementation of that agenda, that program, those development goals. and we're actually looking at the first act in the implementation where that's going to be measured, which is the high-level political forum meeting in july in new york. the aim of this debate and the resolution we are going to adopt is to demand that we once again have a single european union position there and that we are not represented exclusively at the level of the different eu member states. we may have been expecting a communication from the european commission by now, but we understand the complexity of the process, so we'll probably have that communication in the second half of this year. but what we need is to establish, together with the council, a common position so that we can be successful in july. and that is really the aim of this debate and this resolution and what we are asking both from the council and from the commission.
madam president, mr timmermans has rightly said that these goals are about shaping the future, that we need to understand the philosophy of these goals. so these are the 17 sustainable development goals, and the 2030 agenda is a continuation of the development goals that were adopted in 2000. it certainly speaks to cooperation that is within the international community, and in terms of a moral obligation to create a different future. while the millennium development goals were focused on developing countries, the 2030 agenda is the first global agreement to establish a universal, comprehensive agenda for action that will affect all countries. the new programme also requires the participation of all countries. that's the difference, that's the different philosophy. in any case, 17 ambitious goals that speak of environmental, social and economic goals, and most importantly implementation. the question is implementation and i hope that we will be able and wise enough to implement the objectives we have set ourselves.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for asking. it's clear that the european union is spending a lot of money, and we remember that in 2014, it spent 58 billion euros. so the biggest donor of development aid is the european union, and we're going to be targeting those countries anyway, but there are global goals that we agreed to in new york, and i hope we'll stick to them.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. frunzulica, that's exactly what this is about. it's not about individual countries, it's about a common approach for all 28 eu countries. also, this is the first time that each country is not deciding for itself, but we are acting together. so i think your question is out of context.
madam vice-president, first of all i would like to thank high representative mogherini for her very substantive presentation on eu assistance to lebanon and jordan in dealing with the consequences of the syrian crisis. europe and other countries in syria's neighborhood are facing the largest refugee crisis since the end of world war ii. our response to this challenge must be a european and comprehensive approach based on the principle of solidarity with people fleeing the threat of war, but also of gratitude and support for countries like lebanon and jordan that have borne the brunt of the burden of caring for refugees in this war-torn part of the world. i welcome the efforts of the eu, and in particular those made to protect and ensure the safety of civilians, and especially children, as we have heard. the commitments made at the london conference are important, as is the preparation of the lebanon and jordan compact, which should provide employment and economic opportunities for the benefit of host countries and syrian refugees. the union's financial contribution for the period 2014-2020 is estimated at eur 5 million. it is important that we seek to support international efforts to address the root causes of migration, including the implementation of the security council resolution on syria, the munich agreement on the cessation of hostilities, humanitarian access and the resumption of talks on political transition, as well as the efforts of the special representative staffan de mistura. the eu's visibility in the syrian crisis is key, especially in the context of the upcoming adoption of our new global strategy on foreign and security policy.
madam president, i agree with mrs mogherini that we need to see this middle east region as our region, and all in the context of the eu. in any event, jordan and lebanon are to be commended, as are your efforts, mrs mogherini, to keep humanitarian aid at an enviable level. we appreciate all that you do: 6 billion euros is not a small amount of money that the eu has invested as the largest donor, but i also agree with you that every refugee in this area has a name and a surname and that we really need to look at them all in this way. and also, when we compare the numbers, that is, turkey taking in two million refugees and lebanon and jordan taking in five million, then we really have to imagine, with all those iraqis and palestinians that these countries have taken in so far. in any case, we need to have a unified approach, to strengthen defence capabilities and i agree with those who say that we cannot just act humanitarianally - we must also seek a political solution. i'm sure you feel the same way. in any case, the eu needs to be the leader and we cannot leave it to the us and russia to solve this issue, which is difficult and i know there is no simple answer to it, but it is something we all need to work on together.
mr president, madam high representative, the situation in venezuela is really alarming. we've heard the data: 700% inflation, shortage of basic supplies, the worst energy crisis in the history of venezuela, an oil-producing country. but the problem is not only energy or economic, the problem is fundamentally political; it is the erosion, i would almost say the destruction of democratic institutions by the regime of nicolás maduro. and obviously the solution is in respecting the rule of law; obviously, in promoting dialogue, but a dialogue that will be productive only if it has a clear objective, and that clear objective can only be one, and that is the reconstruction of a free and democratic venezuela.
madam president, i support this legislative initiative because it gives europol new responsibilities, above all in the training and upgrading of police personnel, without encroaching on state sovereignty and the principle of subsidiarity. i consider that the decision for each member state to establish or designate a dedicated national unit as the liaison body between europol and the competent national authorities is appropriate as it will preserve the competence of the member states without reducing the functionality and efficiency of europol. i also welcome the increased scrutiny of europol by the european parliament and national parliaments through the joint parliamentary scrutiny group, as this approach guarantees transparency and respect for human rights. a europe without borders has brought criminal and terrorist groups closer to the common people and made their jobs much easier. that is why we need, now more than ever, high-quality cooperation between member states in the fight against organised crime and a strong europol.
madam president, we need a strong european security and intelligence union. this proposal for europol is a compromise. but let's not forget that there is no compromise with terrorists and criminals. that's why i'm not happy. i think we need to take this a step further and do it as soon as possible. i can understand that there are disagreements in the eu about various situations. when it comes to the security-intelligence situation, we can't be in the situation that we're in. we know what's been going on for the last few months. we have schengen in question. now that we have freedom of movement, we must have mandatory information exchange. we need a strong, unified security and intelligence union.
madam president, one of the indicators of competitiveness and development of society and the economy is the ability to attract talent, and we have been closed and unattractive to scientists and researchers for too long. we can only grow in knowledge if we share it with others who bring their ideas, innovations and new insights to us. my colleague corazza bildt made a very good point that we should not be afraid that students and researchers from third countries will take jobs away from our young people. the opposite effect will be that they will create more jobs together. it's a synergy we have to be open to. we've waited too long, but it's never too late to make good decisions. the new rules for the mobility of students and researchers from non-eu countries are simple and tailored to their needs. we're finally sending them a welcome message, and i look forward to working with them.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards the exemption for merchants as it adopts the commission proposal extending the existing exemptions until 31 december 2020. the current treatment exempts merchants from the large exposure and capital requirements and it is therefore essential to avoid a temporary treatment that would introduce the full requirements of the capital requirements regulation and directive. i certainly think that the extension should take into account the realistic and necessary amount of time needed to carry out the audit, and i continue to support this report.
written. ‒ the requirements laid down in the capital requirements regulation apply to credit institutions and investment firms. the commission has also examined whether the exemptions from the capital requirements for large exposures and capital requirements for large exposures are compatible with the internal market. i support the commission's decision to conduct a single audit of the appropriate regime for commodity dealers and the prudential supervision of investment firms in general and to prepare a single report on those topics. i agree that this is necessary to ensure the development of a harmonised prudential framework for all types of investment firms. the commission has also concluded that the exemption from the requirement to provide information on the financial position of the investment firm is not necessary to ensure the effective application of the exemption. the total amount of the credit risk adjustments to be applied to the exposure shall be the sum of the credit risk adjustments to be applied to the exposure and the amount of the credit risk adjustments to be applied to the exposure. the commission has also concluded that the exemptions from the cap on the capital buffer rate are not in line with the requirements of article 4 (1) (a) of the crr.
written. ‒ i adopt a position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards the exemption for merchants at first reading, taking over the commission proposal. the regulation would solve two problems for the merchants. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the capital requirements of the union institutions are not in line with the requirements of the crr. second, assuming that the audit of investment firms would lead to a specifically tailored prudential framework for merchants, they would be deprived of a stable regulatory framework. the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: original deduction according to article 56 (b) of crr the amount of the adjustment to the exposure value of assets that are exposures to corporates under article 147 (2) (b) of the crr if these exposures are secured by mortgages on immovable property in accordance with article 199 (1) (a) of the crr. the extension should take into account the amount of time needed to complete the audit of investment firms and to prepare, adopt and apply the legislation that could result from that audit.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr loonis on the change in the entry into force date of the capital requirements regulation (crr) and the capital requirements directive (crd) which would increase the regulatory burden on merchants. the amount of the adjustment to the exposure value of assets that are exposures to regional governments or local authorities that fall under article 147 (2) (b) of the crr. the extension would ensure that the european commission and the regulatory authorities complete the initiated review of the appropriate regime for traders and that prudential supervision is defined and a tailored regulatory framework is adopted and legislative changes are properly implemented.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the term 'commodity traders' covers a wide range of energy and commodity market players, namely all investment firms whose main activity is exclusively the provision of investment services or the performance of activities related to financial instruments under the markets in financial instruments directive. the requirements laid down in the capital requirements regulation (crr) and the capital requirements directive (crd) apply to both credit institutions and investment firms, with both exemptions expiring on 31 december 2017. the commission has also concluded that the exemptions from the notification requirement are not necessary to ensure the effective enforcement of the union competition rules. the amount of cash outflows reported in item 1.2.1.1 which is collateralised by assets representing claims on or guaranteed by central banks. in order to avoid such an undesirable situation, it is important to extend the validity of the existing exemptions provided for in the crr for as long as is necessary to complete the review of investment firms and to prepare, adopt and apply the legislation that could result from that review.
written. ‒ the term 'commodity trader' covers a wide range of actors in the energy and commodity markets. some trade exclusively in commodity derivatives contracts and are similar to investment firms in terms of functions and risks, while for others commodity derivatives trading is only an ancillary activity to the production of commodities. articles 493 (1) and 498 (1) of capital requirements regulation (eu) no 575/2013 exempt commodity dealers from the large exposure requirements and capital requirements. the commission has decided to carry out a single review of the appropriate regime for merchants and the prudential supervision of investment firms in general as it considers that it will ensure the development of a harmonised prudential framework for all types of investment firms. i support the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as i believe it is in the interest of commodity traders and investment firms.
written. ‒ the audit of investment firms is a very complex project and the likelihood that legislation that could result from that audit will be prepared, adopted and implemented before the expiry of the current exemptions, i.e. before the end of 2017, is extremely low. as from 1 january 2018, merchants should be subject to the full requirements of the capital requirements regulation (crr) and the capital requirements directive (crd), i consider it necessary to extend the existing exemptions in order to allow merchants to comply with the requirements. i am of the opinion that the extension should take into account the amount of time needed to complete the audit of investment firms and to prepare, adopt and apply the legislation that could result from that audit. i therefore supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation as regards the exemption for traders in goods.
written. ‒ i support the report on the status of china's market economy. i think we need to implement coordinated strategies with our trading partners. i also call on the commission to use specific anti-dumping rules as china becomes a market economy.
written. ‒ i voted against the amendments of the efdd/greens club to the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the parliament and of the council on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) and replacing and repealing council decisions 2009/371/jha, 2009/934/jha, 2009/935/jha, 2009/936/jha and 2099/968/jha because i consider that cooperation between law enforcement authorities is essential to raise the level of security in the union. the new mandate of europol must ensure a european approach in the fight against terrorism and transnational crime, and enhanced cooperation at eu level is therefore essential. therefore, i do not support the amendments of the efdd and green representatives club.
written. ‒ achieving a high level of protection of personal data covering judicial and police activities in the european union is of paramount importance and serves as a key indicator of respect for and protection of the fundamental rights of all union citizens. in order to ensure the effective functioning of the internal market, the union should be able to provide for the effective functioning of the internal market in the areas of justice, security and freedom, in particular by ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market and the free movement of persons. cooperation within the eu is achieved through europol, the main agency whose role is to clearly enforce the law and contribute to greater security, and other supporting agencies whose specialisation is law enforcement and the administration of justice. i consider europol's role to be crucial in the area of data protection, the administration of justice and the strengthening of security within the union's borders. for that reason, i did not support the proposal to reject the council's position on the adoption of a regulation on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol).
written. ‒ the establishment of a european agency for law enforcement cooperation would maximise the efficiency of the work of the two eu agencies, europol and cepol, by bringing them together in one body. the european parliament and the national parliaments would also exercise control over the work of the body by requiring it to submit its final accounts and annual reports. the regulation would avoid repeated data storage and develop strong data protection, establish a practice of compensation for acts contrary to the regulation, develop training for law enforcement officials, strengthen the autonomy of agencies, all of which are positive novelties envisaged by the regulation. on the basis of the above, i supported the recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for the cooperation of law enforcement agencies (europol).
written. ‒ i support the adoption of a joint statement by the council and the european parliament on article 44.the establishment of a harmonised, high level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union is of key importance as a means of respecting and protecting the fundamental rights of union citizens. in view of the shared responsibilities of the union and the member states in the area of freedom, security and justice, it is of the utmost importance that there is close and effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities at national and union level. i share the view of my colleagues in the european parliament and the council that, following the adoption of the proposed general data protection regulation and the proposed data protection directive on data processing in the police and judicial sectors, including the new european data protection board to be established shortly, and in view of the announced review of regulation (ec) no 45/2001, the various mechanisms for cooperation between the european data protection supervisor and the national supervisory authorities in this area, including the cooperation committee established by this regulation, should be reorganised in the future in order to ensure effectiveness and consistency and avoid unnecessary duplication, without prejudice to the commission's right of initiative.
‒ europol assists national police services in the fight against international crime and terrorism and has a central position in the european security architecture. in the light of recent terrorist attacks and threats and the increase in organised crime, member states should receive support for operational activities and projects to combat crime. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. in the aftermath of terrorist attacks, we need more intensive cooperation between intelligence, judicial and police services in information sharing and cooperation. i supported the recommendation to give europol greater powers to prevent terrorist organisations, especially online terrorist activities. while cooperation between european and national legislatures is of great importance, the protection of privacy and personal data is a relevant issue of european security policy.
written. ‒ the recommendation considers that, in view of the shared responsibilities of the union and the member states in the area of freedom, security and justice, close and effective cooperation between supervisory authorities at national and union level is of the utmost importance. the commission should also be able to request the european data protection supervisor to provide additional information on the data subject's personal data, in particular on the nature of the personal data, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the nature of the processing activities, the processing of the personal data, the processing of the personal data, the processing of the personal data, the processing of the personal data, the processing of the personal data, the processing of the personal data, the processing of the personal data, the processing of the personal data of the data subject, the processing of the data subject, the processing of the data subject, the data subject, the data subject, the data subject, the data subject, the data subject, the subject, the subject, the subject, the subject, the subject, the other, the subject, the subject, the subject, the subject, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child, the child it is also unacceptable that possible conflicts between member states or between member states and europol cannot be brought before the european court of justice. this is contrary to democratic principles, especially with regard to human rights, and is very dangerous in view of the fact that europol is being given increasing responsibilities. in the light of the above, i did not support the recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for the cooperation of law enforcement agencies (europol) and replacing and repealing council decisions.
written. ‒ the main task of the european police office (europol) is to assist national law enforcement authorities in the fight against serious international crime and terrorism, thus making a major contribution to the security of europe. europol should be able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states and to the commission, in particular to the national authorities responsible for the supervision of europol's activities. it is equally important that the fundamental rights of union citizens are respected and protected, which is achieved by a harmonised, high level of data protection, including police and judicial activities in the union. i consider that, for europol to be effective, the various mechanisms for cooperation between the european data protection supervisor and the national supervisory authorities in the field of data processing in the police and judicial sectors should be reorganised in the future in order to ensure effectiveness and consistency and to avoid unnecessary duplication.
written. ‒ the main task of the european police office (europol) is to assist national law enforcement authorities in the fight against serious international crime and terrorism, thus making a major contribution to the security of europe. europol should be able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states and to the commission, in particular to the national authorities responsible for the supervision of europol's activities. it is equally important that the fundamental rights of union citizens are respected and protected, which is achieved by a harmonised, high level of data protection, including police and judicial activities in the union. i do not support the proposal to reject the council's position because i consider that, for europol to be effective, the different mechanisms for cooperation between the european data protection supervisor and the national supervisory authorities in the field of data processing in the police and judicial sectors should be reorganised in the future in order to ensure effectiveness and consistency and to avoid unnecessary duplication.
written. ‒ i voted against the amendment by the efdd/enf club to the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary service and work for housing and food, as it would have rejected the council's position. the existing rules for individual groups are not sufficiently clear and there are furthermore certain problems in dealing with the requests of the applicants. i believe that the european union is facing serious demographic and economic challenges and that it is therefore necessary to improve the system and conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals.
written. ‒ the council adopted a decision on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, volunteering and accommodation and food work at first reading. the commission should be able to take into account the specific circumstances of the third-country national concerned and the principle of proportionality, as well as the evidence or serious and objective reasons. the member states should be able to require third-country nationals to pay compensation for the costs of their stay in the host member state. the parliament also considers that when a third country national pays this fee, he should have a right to a refund. third-country nationals should provide all information relevant to the procedure, including general documentation on trials, research programmes and specific information on the rights and obligations of the applicant. the directive aims at improving the legislative framework applicable to third-country nationals and authorising their stay for the purpose of study, pupil exchange, traineeship, training, volunteering and scientific research, and i therefore did not support the proposal to reject the council's position on this directive.
written. the title of the recommendation suggests that member states should remove the obligation for third-country nationals to provide proof of sufficient means of subsistence or, alternatively, that the means required are proportionate to the purpose of the stay and do not constitute an obstacle to the achievement of the objectives of the directive. the recommendation also requires the member states of the union to clearly communicate the rules applicable to third-country nationals in their member states. it also proposes to extend the application of certain provisions of the directive to other categories of persons. since the recommendation aims to facilitate the entry and residence of beneficiaries, to ensure the transparency of the procedure and to enhance legal certainty, to promote the mobility of third-country nationals within the union, and because of a number of other positive effects resulting from its application, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ increasing the educational, cultural and tourist mobility of young people and encouraging their involvement in international exchanges is one of the eu's priorities, as confirmed by the europe 2020 strategy and other strategies aimed at addressing the burning issue of high youth unemployment in the eu. by providing opportunities for mobility and international cooperation in the fields of science, education and vocational training for young people, it contributes to the overall strengthening of democratic potential, social cohesion and competitiveness of society. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on youth and its implementation in the member states.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ article 20 (2) (f) of the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary work and work for housing and food allows member states to refuse applications from third-country nationals only in individual cases, taking into account the specific circumstances of the third-country national and the principle of proportionality, and on the basis of evidence or serious and objective reasons. it is important to ensure that member states transpose this directive in a high quality manner and that it is used as an instrument to improve the quality of control of the entry of third-country nationals into the member states of the european union.
written. ‒ the european parliament accepts the council's position at first reading and the joint statement by parliament and the council. the commission should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the application is not rejected, even if the applicant has not provided evidence to the contrary. the commission will ensure that member states, when transposing the directive, implement this provision accordingly. i do not support the proposal to reject the council's position because i think it is a good solution for better control of the entry of third country nationals into the member states of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled after the question for an oral answer (b8-0364/2016) pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on the speedy implementation of cohesion policy, as i am well aware of the issue and have encountered problems of absorption of eu funds as mayor of istrian county. there are many problems that are correctly identified in the resolution: a complicated system of implementation, insufficient commitment and competence of some national institutions in charge of cohesion policy, insufficient administrative capacity at national, local and regional level, delays in payments, etc. i support the establishment of a working group to improve the implementation of the 2007-2013 programme for countries where this is needed, for which i myself initiated the initiative at the time. i also support the establishment of a high-level expert group to facilitate the implementation of cohesion policy.
written. ‒ given that the 2014-2020 regulations introduce several key cohesion policy reforms such as thematic concentration allowing for better adaptation to local conditions, greater focus on results, better coordination with economic and social policies, better linkage between eu priorities and regional needs and a more coordinated use of european structural and investment funds through a common strategic framework, it is clear that they will accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy itself. the commission replied to the question as to what were the main obstacles and problems in the member states in the period 2007-2013, citing insufficient information to beneficiaries, slow and long approval of large projects, lack of administrative structures to manage investments in large projects, complex and long procurement procedures, complex state aid rules, complicated permitting procedures, unresolved ownership relationships, duration of the permitting procedure and difficult access to funding. this resolution supports the speedy implementation of cohesion policy and that is why i supported its adoption.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of a resolution on the speedier implementation of cohesion policy. the amount of untapped potential of the european structural and investment funds is worrying, for example, as many as 85% of croatian municipalities have not even withdrawn aid from eu funds. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to fully exploit the potential of the european structural and investment funds, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, to strengthen social and economic cohesion and reduce territorial disparities, by enabling all regions to become more competitive and facilitating investment, including private investment. given that the economic crisis in many member states has caused a lack of liquidity and of available public funds for public investment, and given that cohesion policy funds are becoming the main source of public investment, i call on the commission and the member states to fully apply and take advantage of the existing flexibility under the stability and growth pact, and ask the commission to maintain a permanent dialogue with the member states that have requested the application of the current investment clause, with a view to maximising the flexibility associated with investment in growth and jobs.
written. ‒ one of the main reasons for reforming eu cohesion policy was to ensure faster access to funds to be used by national authorities and regions to finance projects of particular importance to the technological, economic and social development and infrastructure development of the member states. i supported the european parliament's resolution calling for greater cooperation between the commission and the member states, faster implementation of cohesion policy in all member states and the use of statistical data that could be used as a benchmark in the adaptation and implementation of those parts of the funds that directly affect jobs, growth and employment. this ensures an acceptable and binding financial framework and encourages member states to become more involved and more active in the european project of cohesion policy 2014-2020.
written. ‒ i supported the parliamentary question on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy because cohesion policy is an important instrument for achieving the eu's strategic objectives, providing a seven-year financial framework for projects that contribute to the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the member states of the european union. the republic of croatia, as a full member of the european union, has the right to compete for the funds available to it under the cohesion policy with quality projects. for the period 2014-2020, we are talking about €8.6 billion, which would mean that it has the right to spend around €1.2 billion a year on various development activities with a special focus on less developed areas. the european parliament asks the commission to answer a question on the concrete measures it plans to take to speed up the implementation of cohesion policy and to facilitate the implementation of operational programmes. it also requests explanations on the main obstacles in the member states which have impeded the absorption of funds. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budget.
written. ‒ with a budget of over €350 billion until 2020, the cohesion policy is one of the most important instruments to bring the european union closer to its citizens and is the main investment and development policy of the european union covering all eu regions. in some member states, such policies constitute the main source of public investment and are therefore of great importance. in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives, a consistent interaction between growth and development policy and, where appropriate, structural reforms, as well as the active involvement of regions and cities in the implementation of those reforms, is essential. without cohesion policy, it would not be possible to achieve these objectives in full. its importance is evident in many aspects of the european union and i therefore support this motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. administrative capacity at national, regional and local level is crucial for its implementation, without which cohesion policy cannot be implemented successfully and in a timely manner. equally important is good governance that promotes relevant structural reforms in line with territorial cohesion, sustainable growth, employment objectives and investment-oriented policies.
written. ‒ with a budget of over €350 billion until 2020, the cohesion policy is one of the most important instruments to bring the european union closer to its citizens and is the main investment and development policy of the european union covering all eu regions. in some member states, such policies constitute the main source of public investment and are therefore of particular importance. in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives, a consistent interaction between growth and development policy and, where appropriate, structural reforms, as well as the active involvement of regions and cities in the implementation of those reforms, is essential. without cohesion policy, it would not be possible to achieve these objectives in full. i support this motion for a resolution on the speedy implementation of cohesion policy because its importance is evident in many aspects of the european union. administrative capacity at national, regional and local level is crucial for its implementation, without which cohesion policy cannot be implemented successfully and in a timely manner. good governance that promotes relevant structural reforms in line with territorial cohesion, sustainable growth, employment objectives and investment-oriented policies is also essential.
written. ‒ given that in some member states the european union's cohesion policy is the main source of public investment, i consider the delay in the implementation of the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 to be very worrying, as is the delay in the adoption of the operational programmes. the objectives of increasing growth and jobs can be achieved through a coordinated interaction of structural reforms and growth-oriented investment within the framework of the economic policy mix of the european union. i therefore support the call on the commission to identify ways to speed up the implementation of cohesion policy and to assist member states in tackling administrative problems in implementation, and for the commission to find measures to facilitate the implementation of operational programmes with a view to avoiding withdrawals.
mr president, i would like to remind you, at the outset, that mr juncker recently said in this house that every european has been a refugee at some point in the last 100 years. this is why i am motivated to support any amendment, any improvement and this improvement of the new common asylum policy. the fact is, the depth rule didn't work, so we need to improve it. so i'm all for improving this rule, but we also see the weaknesses that have been there. the smugglers knew that, and we know that, and that is why we have been calling for solidarity and responsibility from day one. today, the word solidarity is being used again, and i hope that it will be the main backbone of this common asylum policy. as far as fines are concerned, i am not in favour of introducing fines and i do not agree with this solution, although i see that unfortunately it may be the only solution. but i'm not personally in favor of that solution. i want to remind you of the large number of unaccompanied minors, and this is 10,000 minors, that is not just a statistic, but a fact, and it's up to us to think about that data. i therefore think that any innovation is welcome and i am in favour of bringing about these changes to the dublin rules and the overall common asylum policy.
mr vice-president, commissioner avramopoulos, i thank mr timmermans for presenting the proposal from the european commission on the reform of the common european asylum system. it is clear that the refugee crisis and the migratory movements of the past year have brought to light all the shortcomings and difficulties that we have in the existing system regulated, above all, by the dublin regulation, which has now proven insufficient for the specific form and intensity of the wave of migration that we have experienced. so it seems to me that, in parallel with what we are doing in the area of foreign and security policy, and in the context of the european agenda on migration, this proposal for reform in several segments of the existing legal system is moving towards the good objective of sharing responsibility, fairly demonstrating the real solidarity of all member states, with corrective mechanisms to ensure a long-term acceptable solution and a genuine european policy. i also call for the strengthening of the european asylum support office, the eu asylum agency and the eurodac system.
mr president, the common european asylum system has shown in recent years all its shortcomings and its complete inadequacy in the face of new circumstances, and it is clear that it needs to be upgraded. but the model proposed by the commission again camouflages the problem rather than tackling it. the problem with the european union is that it has a too liberal asylum policy and avoids addressing the problem of illegal migration. we need to reduce the number of people trying to come to europe illegally, not just deal with redistribution. asylum seekers are free people and should choose their own destiny, just as eu member states are free to choose whom they want to receive. the new commission measures are leading us to the point of absurdity, where we are sending asylum seekers to countries they do not want to go to, but are forced to accept them against the will of their own citizens. it is a severe restriction of freedom and a step in the wrong direction.
mr president, let me join in and say very clearly that after the failure of 'dublin' it was finally necessary to have a commission decision and a commission proposal. this is a step forward, but i'm afraid it doesn't include everything that it should include: more european unity and more european solidarity. i fear that the way the mechanism is designed to 'punish' countries that do not want to accept asylum seekers will lead to further conflict within the european union. perhaps a mechanism of using cohesion funds and other european funds, in favour of those countries that receive asylum seekers and those that receive asylum seekers in the european union, would be a better model. i think in this context, if the european union does not prove to be a success, we risk another serious and very big crisis because the asylum issue will not stop tomorrow but will continue for decades to come.
madam president, commissioner, by abandoning schengen, we would be accepting the fear that the terrorists want to impose on us. the costs of schengen non-functioning are enormous, amounting to between 15 and 18 billion euros per year according to the european commission's estimates. it is much better to invest these funds in strengthening the common external borders, in strengthening frontex and the european guard teams. that is why i am absolutely in favour of the european commission's action plan. it was developed together with the member states and it is important that they feel ownership of the plan and responsibility for its implementation. i've heard some of the mps say they don't see any improvement in bringing schengen back. i have a completely different experience. now you can drive from croatia across slovenia, austria, germany, and france without wasting hours at each border. finally, a message to the commissioner: please support croatia, which is outside schengen and wants to join as soon as possible, and speed up the process of accession.
written. the schengen area of free movement between european countries is the greatest asset of european unity. the system should therefore be maintained and effective controls established at the external borders of the european union. it is necessary to establish full cooperation between all member states on all matters that threaten the functioning of the schengen area. the loss of the free movement of persons and goods within the schengen area is unacceptable and all necessary efforts should therefore be made to restore normalcy between member states by the end of the year.
mr president, let us put it in principle: turkey is neither the first nor the last country to expect visa liberalisation with the member states of the european union. so if there are 72 criteria, turkey needs to meet 72 criteria, just like ukraine, georgia or kosovo needs to meet 72 criteria. if we start trading on political criteria, i think we're going to run into big problems. the question of corruption in all countries, in ukraine and georgia and kosovo, but also in turkey, is an open question. so i think the only thing that's principled is to set things up: 72 criteria, please meet them and then we can have a liberal visa regime.
madam president, tax havens and tax evasion are always topical, and the public reaction to the panama papers is putting even more pressure on us to finally get the tax collection under control. taxes must be paid if our countries are to remain functional and the european union successful and prosperous. but i fear that some political forces are using this to promote a highly repressive tax policy which is to some extent being promoted by the european commission. multinational companies should certainly give back a portion of their profits to the societies in which they do business and make money, but i think it's grossly unfair to tax them excessively and make them pay for other people's political failures and social experiments instead of putting that money into r&amp;d and creating new jobs.
written. the mandatory automatic exchange of tax information is an important step towards tax transparency and the prevention of tax evasion. a tax system that allows tax avoidance of between eur 50 and 70 billion per year is not a fair tax system. small and medium-sized enterprises, which are supposed to be the drivers of our economy and which meet their tax obligations in an orderly manner, are more tax burdened because multinational companies use loopholes in tax legislation to avoid paying taxes. there should be equal rules for all. the recent release of the panama papers has shown us the scale of unfair tax practices. i therefore welcome the mandatory automatic exchange of tax information in this form as just the first step towards a fair, transparent and efficient tax system that will prevent aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. the european union must be more efficient in collecting taxes and channelling these resources to growth and jobs.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened very carefully to the arguments for and against. as you know, in this house, too, some are in favour of supporting mandatory labelling and some are not. the arguments were very different from different points of view. of course, as you know, the various surveys showing that the cost is not important refer to cases of voluntary schemes, but this cannot be compared with the cost entailed by any eu-wide mandatory scheme. surveys show that – not me, but surveys. there are obviously some benefits, no doubt, and environmental grounds are legitimate. however, any benefits also have to be assessed in the light of negative impacts. those negative impacts are also on the ground. we must also assess those from all positions. the conclusion of our work so far is that mandatory origin labelling would rigidify supply chains, disturb the internal market and international trade. we are also thinking about the international situation. it is not about ttip, but about our producers, our consumers and the european situation. i would like to thank you for this draft resolution and for the very stimulating debate on the topic of mandatory food origin labelling, including on the commission report on this matter. i have listened to the discussion carefully and with great interest. i have taken note of your views and will pass these on to my colleagues in the context of any further reflections on the matter.
written. this resolution is a step in the right direction, although i regret that the labelling of products does not contain information on the full life cycle of the product from farming to shelf with key elements that can affect the quality of the product such as the place of farming and the date of slaughter and the date of first freezing of the meat. such labeling would prevent fraudulent placing of meat on the shelves that is several years old. the commission has also found that the aid granted to the milk producers in croatia is compatible with the internal market. the situation is similar with eggs produced in croatia, which often have to meet higher standards than the competition. i welcome the points in the resolution which speak of an excessive fear of price rises due to the indication of the country of origin. experience to date shows just the opposite. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. the commission should also be able to use the information contained in the register to identify the products concerned. the mention of the country of origin does not mean less europe, but more europe in its diversity.
mr. president, i condemn all forms of human trafficking and believe we must do everything in our power to protect human dignity. given that surrogacy is a modern form of trafficking in human beings that is not adequately regulated in many eu countries, and that the surrogacy industry and surrogacy tourism are booming, i believe that this report should have condemned the practice of surrogacy. all the more so because we have already done so in the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world. i regret that the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which is supposed to protect the dignity of women, has had neither the ear nor the interest to get to the bottom of this problem. we cannot allow children to be bought and sold and women's reproductive functions to be rented out on demand. what else is there to call it but human trafficking? women and children are not objects and commodities, but human beings with dignity. the council of europe has refused to legalize surrogacy and we must insist on its prohibition, because it is human trafficking.
mr. president, estimates are that over 10,000 people a year are victims of human trafficking. of these, 70% are eu citizens. we don't emphasize that enough here. of these, 80% are unfortunately women, and more than 16% are minors. it is said to be worth more than a billion euros a year. gentlemen, those of you who are here now, in a way, shedding tears over this problem, and when we were talking about europol the other day, you did not want to talk about a stronger deepening of everything that europol can do, about stronger powers for europol. we will not be able to fight these criminals working in a particular country alone because it is a cross-border trafficking of people. so i'm all for punishing all criminals, but we need to strengthen europol too.
madam vice-president, first of all i would like to express my satisfaction that we have reached a complete consensus on this resolution on the situation of the crimean tatars, a minority in ukraine, a minority that has remained loyal to the ukrainian state, that has opposed russia's illegal annexation and aggression on ukrainian territory. we have also very clearly condemned the banning of the mejlis of the crimean tatars and the declaration of their work as an extremist organization by the so-called local institutions, the supreme court, the chief prosecutor. we consider this unacceptable, we advocate for respect for their human rights, for avoiding any violence and intimidation of the crimean tatar position. we want the overall political process of reintegration of this part of the territory of ukraine to continue through the geneva format and we believe that the policy of the sanctions regime against russia over crimea must be maintained as there is no apparent progress in this process. in this respect, we also stand for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report on the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. i regret that the proposal to lower the threshold was not supported, because the threshold of 750 million euros in turnover will allow us to catch up with only 10% of multinational companies, or about 1900 companies. i believe that in the near future we should consider again lowering the threshold to achieve greater transparency in the fight against aggressive tax planning.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, as this increases the transparency of tax information. it is of the utmost importance to tackle effectively the problem of cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition and to establish a system at european level that is in line with current global challenges. the commission proposal is particularly good in terms of the threshold for multinational groups to submit country reports and the scope of information exchanged. therefore, i support this report and the principle of mandatory automatic exchange of information.
written. ‒ the problem of cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has increased in recent years and has become a focus of attention within the union and at global level. member states should increase the level of human, technical and financial resources dedicated to the automatic exchange of information between tax administrations, as it represents an important instrument in the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'undertaking' and the definition of the concept of 'undertaking'. the provision of an appropriate level of information to the tax authorities of the member states and the commission and the exchange of that information between them could provide an incentive for groups of mfis to abandon certain practices and pay tax in the country where the value is created. the amendment of this directive will make it mandatory for mne's located in or operating in the eu, with total consolidated revenue equal to or greater than eur 750 000 000, to report by country, which is still subject to automatic data exchange. increasing the transparency of mne groups without undermining the union's competitiveness is an important part of countering tax base reduction and profit shifting and ultimately tax avoidance, which is why i supported this report.
the commission should be able to provide the information requested by the member state concerned to the commission in accordance with article 7 of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. in doing so, care must be taken to respect confidentiality rules. i support the proposed scope of information exchange which will include information on the amount of revenue, pre-tax profit, income tax paid and accrued, number of employees, declared capital, retained earnings and tangible assets for each tax jurisdiction in which the mne group operates. information on public subsidies received, the value of assets and the future european tax identification number should also be part of the country-by-country report. i welcome the announcement to increase the commission's transparency towards citizens by publishing country reports based on information from the centralised reporting register, and i support the proposal to submit an annual report to the parliament and the council in which the commission will summarise the main points of the member states' national assessments.
written. ‒ tax fraud, tax avoidance and evasion have in recent years been increasingly challenging for the european union. it is of particular importance that the tax rules are designed in such a way as not to hinder growth or investment, to place union companies at a competitive disadvantage or to increase the risk of double taxation, and to minimise the costs and administrative burden for companies. the taxable person shall be subject to the taxation of the income of the taxpayer, including the income of the taxpayer's taxable person. i supported the report by mr rosati as a positive step which contains an action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion with a view to ensuring the proper functioning of the union's internal market.
written. ‒ in recent years, we have seen an increase in taxation problems at eu level, but also at global level. these problems include cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition. such a situation requires increased transparency of tax information in order to curb aggressive tax planning, in particular by introducing country-by-country reporting for multinational enterprise (mne) groups, as member states do not yet do so under the current legal framework. i support this report because i believe that to address the transparency and reporting issues it is crucial to strengthen the tools and mechanisms of the already existing council directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. member states' tax authorities need comprehensive and relevant information on mne groups in order to be able to react in a timely manner to harmful tax practices through legislative changes or appropriate risk assessments and tax audits and to determine whether companies have engaged in practices that have the effect of fictitiously shifting significant amounts of revenue to a more tax-friendly environment.
written. ‒ unfortunately, in recent years we have seen an increase in taxation problems at the eu level, but also at the global level. these problems include cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition. such a situation requires increased transparency of tax information in order to curb aggressive tax planning, in particular by introducing country-by-country reporting for multinational enterprise (mne) groups, as member states do not yet do so under the current legal framework. i support this report because i believe that to address the transparency and reporting issues it is crucial to strengthen the tools and mechanisms of the already existing council directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. member states' tax authorities need comprehensive and relevant information on mne groups in order to be able to react in a timely manner to harmful tax practices through legislative changes or appropriate risk assessments and tax audits and to determine whether companies have engaged in practices that have the effect of fictitiously shifting significant amounts of revenue to a more tax-friendly environment.
written. ‒ since december 2014, consumers have hoped that the new food labelling will bring more controls to food sold to them in fast food restaurants, ethnic restaurants and similar establishments. unfortunately, the study shows that the deception of customers has continued. positive examples from the world show that the cost of adapting to more detailed menu labelling is not high. traders often say that they write all the information down, but the truth is that the buyer often doesn't know it at the time of ordering when he makes his decision.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets, as i believe this is good for the european fishery market and for the catering industry, as well as for consumers. the proposals in the resolution seek to reduce the opportunities for fraud and misdeclaration of products. this provides a higher degree of consumer confidence and trust. the traceability system should be standardised at european level, transparent, clear and independent in its implementation. it is important to establish a simple system that does not put the economic sectors to which it applies at risk by administrative and other obstacles.
written. ‒ the draft resolution addresses the problem of traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in the eu. a recent study published by a non-governmental organization points to worrying cases of mislabeling of fish served in restaurants in brussels. the study was based on dna analysis of more than 280 samples of fish served in restaurants, including those of the european institutions. the results showed that one-third of the fish were mislabeled. in those cases, misleading information was provided to consumers by means of mislabelling. i supported the motion for a resolution because it stresses the need for traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets, as this is necessary to fully respect the rights of consumers.
written. ‒ the european union is the world's largest fish market, supplied with fish caught in the territory of its member states and third countries. several studies have pointed to a worrying trend of mislabelling fishery products, whereby low-quality fish is presented as high-quality. i believe that the right of consumers to be informed in an understandable way about the fish they buy and where it is caught is also accompanied by the union's duty to protect its citizens from fraudulent behaviour by producers, since all products on the european market must meet european standards. i therefore support the motion for a resolution which seeks to protect consumer confidence. i regard the establishment of a working group to harmonise the implementation of european legislation in the member states and to support the strengthening of national controls over the production chain, from the place of catch to the table, as a positive step. the republic of croatia has a large number of fisheries products. in future, the emphasis will be on improving product traceability through product labelling, as fisheries play a significant role in the export of food products from the republic of croatia to the union.
written. ‒ the eu is the world's largest seafood market, supplied by products from the eu's fishing sector as well as by imports of seafood from third countries. in such a large market, unfortunately, there is a possibility of false product labels, for example, there are labels with false fish names and false geographical indications of origin. i therefore call for the protection of the consumer's right to information and for the eu and its member states to protect citizens from false product labels and to ensure that all products meet all eu requirements and standards. i express my serious concern and dissatisfaction with the results of the investigation to date on the amount of false labels of seafood in the eu and point out that such false labelling practices are not only contrary to eu law but may also constitute criminal offences under the relevant national laws. in the name of the fight for consumer rights, i support a system of traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets. i believe that such a traceability system would strengthen consumer confidence in eu products and consequently reduce dependence on imported fishery and aquaculture products, thus not only strengthening the eu market but also potentially leading to growth in the eu economy and the creation of new jobs.
written. ‒ food control in many countries is hampered by fragmented legislation, multiple jurisdictions and ineffective supervision, monitoring and enforcement of laws. effective national food control systems and legislation are crucial to ensure the health and safety of the local population as well as to ensure the safety and quality of food in international trade. i supported the resolution by the cadec member on behalf of the committee on fisheries expressing concern about the mislabelling of fishery products and calling on member states to strengthen their national legislation and food control systems in the interests of transparency and respect for consumer rights. i welcome the creation of a public database of information on fishery products for all member states to avoid confusion, and in this context a single eco-label for products throughout the union would help.
written. ‒ a recent study by a non-governmental organisation has highlighted worrying cases of mislabelling of fish served in restaurants in brussels. the results of dna analysis of more than 280 samples of fish served in restaurants, including those of the european institutions, showed that one third of these fish were mislabeled. the study thus demonstrated that the key problem is the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets in the european union, which leads to misinformation of consumers about fishery and aquaculture products. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe it is necessary to identify the deficiencies in the supply chain in terms of traceability and to guarantee the traceability of products in restaurants and retail outlets, thus enabling consumers to have access to complete and accurate information about the products they use and consume.
written. ‒ the european union has become the world's leading market for fishery and aquaculture products, and this market is continuously growing, with new products being added daily from member states and third countries. the results of various studies show a low level of labelling of fishery products sold on the internal market, including those sold in restaurants, which indicates deliberate avoidance and infringement of european union rules. the commission should also be able to provide information on the origin of fishery products and the geographical origin of the products concerned. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on china's market economy status because it represents a compromise of most of the political groups in the european parliament. china is an important trading and strategic partner of the european union and therefore there is a need to ensure fair and free trade in line with the principles of the world trade organisation and the principles of the european union. the commission has not established that the chinese exporting producers are in a comparable factual and legal situation to the union producers. it is also necessary to take into account the possible consequences of the partnership on union jobs, industry, the environment, and other affected manufacturing sectors in order to fully safeguard and protect the interests of the eu.
written. ‒ trade between the union and china exceeds eur 1 billion per day, and since 2015, chinese foreign investment in europe has exceeded european investment in china, which is a major boost for various european industries. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. the most commonly used trade defence mechanism is anti-dumping measures aimed at protecting the european union market and domestic producers from low-priced imports from china. the commission established the volume of imports from the prc on the basis of the data provided by the cooperating exporting producers. i supported the motion for a resolution in view of the fact that china is the second largest economy in the world and the european union's second largest trading partner.
written. ‒ when china joined the world trade organisation in 2001, its economy was expected to become a market-based economy by 2016. although this has not happened, china has been vigorously promoting the idea of gaining free market status. on the other hand, the eu has committed itself to china's accession by the end of this year and is obliged to fulfil its commitments. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. the european union and china are among the world's largest trading powers. china is the second largest trading partner of the european union, while the eu is china's largest trading partner, with a daily trade volume of well over eur 1 billion. as the chinese market is the main profit generator for a number of industries and brands from the european union, and thus from croatia, i supported the adoption of this resolution.
written. ‒ china is the eu's second largest trading partner, while the eu is china's largest trading partner. china and the eu trade about a trillion euros a day. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to provide the necessary information to the commission to enable it to assess the likelihood of continuation of dumping. the commission has also found that the chinese steel industry is not in a position to provide the union industry with the necessary capacity to meet its demands. i would point out that china is not a market economy and does not meet the five criteria defined by the eu for non-market economies. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese exporting producers were not in a position to benefit from the measures in force. the commission has not found any evidence that the chinese exporting producers are in a position to export to the union market.
written. ‒ regarding the possible granting of market economy status to china after december 2016, parliament calls on the commission to examine as soon as possible the legal and economic consequences of adopting such a methodological principle, primarily on economic operators in the european union. the eu, as a major partner of china, is obliged to respect the provisions of the joint agreements, but must not leave the economic market unprotected. i therefore support the resolution, expressing the hope that the legal aspects of the china agreement are set up with sufficient flexibility to protect the economy of the european union and its member states and that the future will bring continued strong economic cooperation and mutual investment with china.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ china is the eu's second largest market partner, while the eu is china's largest partner with over €1 billion worth of trade. the eu's strategic partnership with china is thus of great importance, and investments, which should be based on the principle of reciprocity and mutual benefit, also play a key role. however, it is also important to stress that china is not a market economy and the five criteria for defining a market economy established by the eu are not yet met. the commission has not found any evidence that the chinese exporting producers are in a position to export to the union market. the commission has not provided any evidence that the chinese exporting producers have been able to obtain sufficient evidence to justify the imposition of measures.
‒ the european union and china are the two largest trading partners in the world. china is the second largest trading partner of the european union, while the european union is the largest trading partner of china. the trade between these two entities amounts to more than eur 1 billion per day. parliament stressed the strategic importance of the eu-china partnership, in which trade and investment between the two countries play a key role. however, the parliament considers that china is not a market economy as it has not fulfilled the five criteria established by the european union to define which country falls under the market economy category. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties regarding the imposition of measures on imports of the product concerned from the prc. they stress the need to ensure the union's competitiveness in a global context. i support the decision of parliament not to grant the people's republic of china market economy status because it does not meet the criteria set by the european union.
written. ‒ the eu-china trade relationship is of paramount importance as china is one of the eu's most important trading partners. however, when china joined the world trade organisation, it was found that it had not completed its transition to a market economy and therefore allowed other wto members to apply non-market-based methods to imports from that country until its transition to a market economy was completed. in order to protect the union market, the commission should adopt a clear and effective strategy for granting market economy status to third countries in order to continue to combat all forms of anti-market behaviour and market distortions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the state of play and the way forward with regard to the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals, given the need to modernise the eu's development strategy for the next 15 years and to focus additional efforts on eradicating poverty at international level. i believe it is necessary to ensure the implementation of a comprehensive strategy that includes all relevant external and internal policies and in which the european parliament will play an active role. the union's contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance shall be limited to the amount of eur 500000000 in commitment appropriations and eur 500000000 in payment appropriations. i support the proposal to call on the commission to provide clear information on the implementation structure of the said agenda at european and national level and therefore support this resolution.
written. ‒ the 2030 agenda for sustainable development should provide a holistic response to the growing global challenges. it is a new global framework to fight poverty and achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals, and contains a package of 17 targets that are necessary to achieve the purpose of the agenda. these goals encompass and cover areas such as the fight against poverty, inequality, health, sustainable growth and development, climate change and others. the objectives of the agenda build on the development goals adopted in 2000 and represent cooperation within the international community to meet the global commitment to create a better future. the agenda is the first global agreement to establish a comprehensive global plan of action that should affect all countries. it is essential that all countries participate in the implementation of this programme in order to achieve together the 17 ambitious goals set out in the agenda. the special emphasis is on the successful implementation of these objectives, which is why i supported this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, adopted at the un in 2015, and building on the millennium development goals adopted in 2000, established a global framework to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development by 2030. the 2030 agenda includes an ambitious set of 17 sustainable development goals and 169 related targets, mobilising all countries and stakeholders to achieve these goals and influence national policies. the programme is a universal framework for all countries. i share the concern that the commission did not publish a communication on the monitoring and evaluation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development ahead of the high level political forum on sustainable development, which would certainly help align the eu's common positions, especially with the commitment to eradicate poverty, which i personally consider to be one of the priorities. in this regard, it is appropriate to carry out extensive consultations with all stakeholders, and to develop effective monitoring, evaluation and accountability mechanisms for the implementation of this programme and to launch a high-level dialogue on the implementation of the sdgs with a view to coordinating the policies, programmes and actions of the eu, the un and other donors. i supported the resolution on the monitoring and evaluation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and i call on the commission to accept the european parliament's requests and to report regularly on the progress made.
written. ‒ the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development strategy represent a renewed moral commitment by the european union to do whatever is necessary to achieve economic development, but economic development that is mindful of its environmental and social implications and strives to eradicate poverty. i insist that the new sustainable development strategy and its proper implementation be the subject of a wide range of consultations with national parliaments, local authorities and representatives of civil society, etc., in order to hear all the different opinions of relevant actors before the strategy itself is drawn up. i call on the commission to present concrete proposals for more effective integration of sustainable development policy into the implementation of the 2030 agenda. i call on the commission to develop effective means of monitoring, auditing and accountability mechanisms for the implementation of the 2030 agenda and to report on the implementation thereof to the european parliament.
written. ‒ the union has adopted a highly ambitious roadmap containing guidelines for poverty eradication, as well as 17 sustainable development goals and 169 intentions to address the world's most complex problems. the objectives of the 2030 agenda are the objectives that the european union has always set for its member states, but they also represent the policies of the eu as a transnational advocate for peace and stability. i support the european parliament resolution which shows the breadth and ambition of the objectives in the areas of developing the economic, social and political infrastructures of globalised societies. i hope that action will be accelerated in the areas of promoting a strong partnership between member states and that the union will be a positive example that will act as a mirror of success and the achievement of the objectives of the agenda.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ a new universal framework for sustainable development requires greater connectivity between the different policy areas and actors of the european union and further coordination, dialogue and joint work at all levels within and between the eu institutions to ensure the integration of all three pillars of sustainable development (environmental, economic and social) into the eu's external and internal policies. the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 10000000000. the implementation of the sdgs itself involves the significant role of the high-level political forum on sustainable development, which must become the main body for ensuring the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the sdgs in order to ensure a coordinated and effective assessment of needs and the adoption of plans and decisions necessary for the implementation of the sdgs. the review of the state of play and the future actions of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals is of paramount importance and i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ a new universal framework for sustainable development requires greater connectivity between the different policy areas and actors of the european union and further coordination, dialogue and joint work at all levels within and between the eu institutions to ensure the integration of all three pillars of sustainable development (environmental, economic and social) into the eu's external and internal policies. the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 100000000000 for the period 2014-2020 and eur 500000000000 for the period 2014-2020. the 2030 agenda redefines cooperation within the international community in terms of the global commitment to create a different future for people and planet through sustainable development. the agenda also aims to respect human rights, as well as to achieve gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls in society. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the 2030 agenda is one of the key elements for poverty eradication, but also for future global integration. i also support this proposal because the sustainable development goals are of paramount importance.
‒ the 2030 agenda is a universal agenda that embraces all countries, rich and poor, with the aim of full integration and the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainability. the programme adopted in september 2015 defined cooperation within the international community to achieve the sustainable development goals. this is the first global agreement to establish a universal, comprehensive agenda that will affect all countries and achieve its goals by achieving balanced development in environmental, economic and social dimensions. as this programme renews the international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise the development strategy for the next 15 years and guarantee the delivery of results, i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ a declaration that does not say that, for example, lasagna produced in croatia contains beef from poland is unfair to consumers and opens the way for various frauds. the labelling of the country of origin of meat should facilitate the fight against food fraud and the punishment of the perpetrators by the authorities of the member states. i therefore support this resolution and call on the commission to take the steps requested by parliament.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following the question for an oral answer (b8-0363/2016) pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foodstuffs (2016/2583 ((rsp)) as i agree with the content of the resolution and consider it extremely important to minimise the possibility of consumer fraud. in this respect, i agree to the introduction of a mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of origin for meat in processed food products; the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of origin for meat other than beef, pork, sheep, goat or poultry meat, for milk, milk used as an ingredient in dairy products and for unprocessed food, single ingredient products and ingredients representing more than 50% of a food product. i consider it necessary to introduce the mandatory indication of the country or place of origin for all types of drinking milk, milk products and meat products.
written. ‒ the rules defined for the indication of the country of origin of products have been in force for some time and their effective application has been noted for a wide range of food products such as wine, fish, honey, eggs, vegetables, various types of olive oil, etc. despite the wide range, some key products are still not covered. according to the 2013 eurobarometer, 84% of respondents indicated that there is a need to highlight the country of origin for milk, whether sold as a separate product or as an additive in dairy products. according to the same year of the survey, 90% of consumers indicated the importance of highlighting the country of origin of meat used in processed food products. parliament supports the introduction of a mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for meat in processed food products. the resolution stresses the importance of a level playing field in the internal market and the objective of mandatory origin labelling of foodstuffs is to restore consumer confidence in foodstuffs. i supported the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foodstuffs. i believe that labelling food products such as milk and processed meat products contributes to greater consumer involvement and confidence in the products available to them.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foodstuffs. this resolution is a step in the right direction, although i regret that the labelling of products does not contain information on the full life cycle of the product from farming to shelf life with key elements that can affect the quality of the product such as the place of farming and the date of slaughter and the date of first freezing of the meat. such labeling would prevent fraudulent placing of meat on the shelves that is several years old. the commission has also found that the product labelling system is not in line with the requirements of the directive. the situation is similar with eggs produced in croatia, which often have to meet higher standards than the competition. i welcome the points in the resolution which speak of an excessive fear of price rises due to the indication of the country of origin. experience to date shows just the opposite. consumers want to be informed about the food they buy. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. the practice of indicating the country of origin increases citizens' confidence and also gives 'a wind in the sails' to small and medium-sized family farms by making the product itself and the country of origin recognisable.
‒ the european parliament supports the introduction of a mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for meat in processed food products. such indication should also be mandatory for meat other than beef, pork, sheep, goat or poultry meat, for milk, milk used as an ingredient in dairy products and for unprocessed food, single-ingredient products and ingredients representing more than 50% of a food product. i am particularly pleased that parliament has invited the commission to consider extending the mandatory indication of the country or place of origin to other food products. we are aware of the problem of olive oil counterfeiting, which research has shown is the most counterfeited product on the european market, and this will put an end to it. while i support the european parliament's decision, i believe that there should be certain exceptions for milk and milk products because of the extremely difficult situation in the dairy sector. the studies have shown that consumers are more concerned with the taste and the durability of the product than with the origin itself when buying it, and that only 50% of consumers are willing to pay 1-2% more for the product in order to have the information on the origin. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the export price of the product concerned.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ rules for the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance already exist and function effectively for a range of food products, such as unprocessed meat, eggs, fruit and vegetables, fish, honey, extra virgin olive oil, wine and carbonated drinks. the fact is that the supply chain is often complex and involves a number of actors, and food operators do not always have a clear overview of the entire production chain. it is therefore not surprising that consumers do not know much about how their food is actually produced, which is a concern as information on the origin of food could have a positive impact on their willingness to pay. in the light of the above, i support these motions for a resolution and consider that, inter alia, the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of origin should be implemented for all types of milk, milk and meat products, and consideration should be given to extending the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of origin to other foods containing a main ingredient.
written. ‒ rules for the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance already exist and function effectively for a range of food products, such as unprocessed meat, eggs, fruit and vegetables, fish, honey, extra virgin olive oil, wine and carbonated drinks. the fact is that the supply chain is often complex and involves a number of actors, and food operators do not always have a clear overview of the entire production chain. it is therefore not surprising that consumers are unaware of how their food is actually produced, which is a concern as information on the origin of food could have a positive impact on their willingness to pay value. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of origin should be implemented for all types of milk, milk and meat products, and that consideration should be given to extending the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of origin to other foods containing one main ingredient.
written. ‒ according to the 2013 eurobarometer surveys, 84% of consumers consider it necessary to indicate the country of origin of milk, whether sold as a separate product or as an ingredient in dairy products, and a commission report of 17 december 2013 indicated that as many as 90% of consumers want to know the origin of the meat used in processed products. however, the commission concludes in its report on milk and milk used as an ingredient in milk products that voluntary labelling would be the most appropriate solution for those products and has not yet put forward any legislative proposal in relation to processed meat. given the high interest of consumers in country of origin information, i consider that the commission should initiate as soon as possible the obligation to indicate the origin of food at minimal additional cost to producers and consumers.
written. ‒ croatia has one of the best regulated maternity leave in europe. it is sad that other member states do not follow this example. i believe that it is necessary to regulate maternity leave at eu level, in order to create greater security for parents.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the application of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec on the grounds that the current legislation in the field in question is not compatible with the current economic and social climate of the union. i support gender equality and the separation of parenting because it's an important factor in promoting work-life balance. i therefore believe that individualising leave entitlements and promoting the role of fathers can help to improve the current situation, and i continue to support this report.
written. ‒ the report concerns the application of the directive on the implementation of the revised framework agreement on parental leave. it is important that legislation relating to family policy improves the position of women on the labour market and the reconciliation of private and professional life, thus having a positive impact on demographic processes. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european agency for fundamental rights. i supported this report because the implementation of the agreement can make a significant contribution to the eu economy, by strengthening the role of women in the labour market and helping to achieve the europe 2020 goal of more women in employment.
written. ‒ i find it devastating that only 2.7% of fathers in the eu use their right to parental leave and i agree that we must encourage fathers to make more use of this right and thus to be more involved in the upbringing of their children and to take an equal share of family responsibilities, because children, especially in their early years, need both parents equally - both mother and father - and both parents need to be provided with the minimum conditions for reconciling work and family life. i therefore support individual parental leave and at least one part of it being non-transferable. however, unfortunately, in one part of this report, the framework set by council directive 2010/18/eu and the framework agreement on parental leave has been exceeded by the social partners, which have inadmissively extended and given equal rights to same-sex couples to mothers and fathers who are not mentioned in that directive and framework agreement, thus violating the principle of subsidiarity and interfering with the family laws of member states which are not subject to the interference of the european union. i also believe it is extremely important to bring back the maternity leave directive to ensure that all mothers in the eu have a minimum duration of maternity leave with adequate remuneration.
written. ‒ the european parliament, taking into account its resolution of 9 june 2015 on the eu strategy for equality between women and men beyond 2015, stressed that the provisions necessary for the transposition of directive 2013/62/eu differ between member states and considered that the transposition should be fully in line with the legislation in force in the field of collective bargaining between social partners. he stressed that families with children and parents who decide to take a career break to raise them face not only a loss of income but also higher costs and a very low valuation of their parenting role. i welcome the european parliament's decision because the work that parents do within the family and raising children is a measurable contribution to the economy and is also of great importance in the context of demographic change in europe. the european union as a whole is facing a major demographic challenge, with birth rates in most member states falling. family policies that are fair to men and women should improve the position of women in the labour market and thus the reconciliation of private and professional life. in the light of the above, i would stress the need to reduce the gender gap in pay, pensions and lifetime earnings, which will have a positive impact on demographic trends.
‒ the european union is facing a major demographic challenge with birth rates falling in most member states. on the other hand, the work that parents do within the family and in raising children is also of great importance in the context of demographic change in europe. the gender employment gap is causing major losses to european economies. the reduction of redundancy in member states, regardless of gender, should guarantee without discrimination the right to parental leave, regardless of the sector in which employed fathers and mothers work or the type of contract they have. i supported the report by ms arena because it is the european union that can draw the attention of the member states to the need to act now and to share best practices and provide assistance to those member states in need, especially in the area of social rights which affect demographic stability and the future of europe.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the application of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec, as i believe that every employed parent should be entitled to four months of unpaid leave, regardless of the profession and the member state in which they work. there are wide differences in parental leave issues across eu member states, but most have one thing in common: public sector employees are better protected than those in the private sector. those differences should be reduced so that everyone has the opportunity to take parental leave under the same conditions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation to the conditions for the granting of parental leave.
written. ‒ parental leave has a positive and long-term impact on child development, and the work parents do within the family and raising children is an important contribution to the economy and is of great importance in view of demographic changes in europe. furthermore, the fact that unpaid or poorly paid parental leave results in low rates of leave utilisation and that fathers make little use of their right to parental leave. parental leave which is wholly or partly non-transferable and adequately paid equally benefits both parents, thus contributing to reducing discrimination against women in the labour market. such leave therefore has a positive impact on the achievement of the 75% employment target set by the europe 2020 strategy for women. in particular, to achieve this goal, more proactive policies are needed to help women enter and stay in the labour market, especially when they return to the labour market as mothers in order to secure stable and decent employment. i support this report because i believe that the provision of social security is a responsibility of the member states, but also that it is necessary to increase the coherence, consistency and accessibility of the member states' leave systems (maternity, paternity and parental leave) as this increases the rate of use of leave and its overall efficiency.
written. ‒ i voted against the framework agreement on parental leave because this issue should be a matter for the member states, not the european union. the european parliament should encourage member states to exchange experiences and practices on parental leave, but should not interfere in areas which, under the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, should be decided by each member state individually. i also believe that each parent, both mother and father, must decide for himself whether to take parental leave and for how long. therefore, i consider that the establishment of a minimum paternity leave is inappropriate and unnecessary. it is for the member states to provide parents with adequate compensation during leave and to facilitate their re-entry into the labour market.
written. ‒ i support the report on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. most of the registered victims of trafficking in human beings are women trafficked for the purpose of sexual exploitation. the directive establishes a better legal framework to enable the prosecution of traffickers in human beings and the protection of their victims. member states must take measures to reduce the demand for trafficking in human beings, including by targeting those who purchase services from traffickers.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the implementation of the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and the protection of its victims from a gender perspective because i believe that the union and the member states need to focus more efforts on the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings, especially women who represent 80% of the victims. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. victims of trafficking should not be considered criminals and stronger support should be provided to enable them to return to normal life as soon as possible. therefore, i support this report and believe that it is necessary to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of all individuals.
written. ‒ trafficking in human beings constitutes a serious violation of fundamental human rights protected by article 5 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, as well as a violation of the personal integrity of the victim and a serious form of organised crime that undermines the state and the rule of law. directive 2011/36/eu aims to provide better protection for victims of trafficking in human beings and to reduce the exposure of potential victims, and thereby to establish a legal framework for better enforcement of the prosecution of offenders. the eu strategy considers violence against women and gender inequality as one of the root causes of trafficking in human beings. the statistics clearly show that the majority of victims (80%) are women and girls and that gender is a factor in the risk of exposure to trafficking in human beings. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of trafficking victims and the number of victims of trafficking in human beings. i supported this report because it stresses the need for better coordination and prevention, which is key in the fight against trafficking in human beings.
written. ‒ trafficking in human beings in any form is a serious violation of fundamental human rights that we must protect. the human trafficking industry knows no borders and has become a serious form of organized crime with profits of $150 billion a year. we are all united in the view that we must do everything in our power to stop these grave violations of human rights and dignity, but we do not agree on the exact definition of trafficking in human beings, which in my view should be comprehensive and include modern forms of trafficking in human beings such as surrogacy, which this parliament has already condemned, and the council of europe has recently opposed the legalisation of this practice which violates human dignity by treating both women and children as objects and goods to be bought and sold. i also do not fully agree with the methods of protecting victims of trafficking set out in this report. we know that human rights extend to the violation of the human rights of another human being and therefore are strongly opposed to being dismissed as an instrument to help and protect victims of sexual exploitation. i believe that there is a lot of room to create effective instruments to combat trafficking in human beings and we need to focus on developing instruments, implementing eu legislation on this issue and destroying the black market of trafficking in human beings.
written. ‒ the european parliament, taking into account the oviedo convention on human rights and biomedicine and the hague convention on adoption, noted that directive 2011/36/eu was to be transposed into national law by the member states by 6 april 2013 and that all member states except one had informed the commission of the transposition of that directive into their national law. it also stressed that, in accordance with article 11 of the directive, member states are obliged to establish mechanisms to ensure the early detection of victims and the assistance and support to victims, in cooperation with the relevant support organisations. he also stressed the need for an approach based on four key strategies: prevention, prosecution, protection of victims and multi-level partnerships. i welcome the european parliament's decision because it recognises and consequently prevents the danger of women and children being forced into sexual intercourse in exchange for protection, in order to survive, to continue their migration route and to feed themselves. it also addresses the fact that trafficking in human beings is not only carried out by organised criminal groups but also by the victim's family members, friends, relatives, romantic partners and regular employers.
written. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a violation of fundamental human rights, of the victim's personal integrity and a serious form of organised crime. i supported the report by ms bearder which calls for better coordination and more action to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings. the union should continue to develop its work on methodologies and ways of collecting high-quality data in order to obtain comparable statistics that will serve as a basis for the implementation of concrete measures. prevention is important and in this regard a legislative proposal should be proposed to combat violence against women with an emphasis on awareness-raising campaigns. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu of 5 april 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims from a gender perspective because a universal strategy is not effective and because the problem of different forms of trafficking in human beings, such as trafficking for sexual exploitation, trafficking for labour exploitation and trafficking in children, must be addressed through specific and tailored policy measures. most of the victims are women, girls and young girls. it is important that the report encourages the identification, treatment and protection of victims and the support available to them. despite the directive, victims of trafficking in human beings continue to be identified in an insufficient and consistent manner and continue to face problems with access to justice and the services and fair treatment to which they are entitled under eu law. in accordance with the commission's study on the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings, there is gender-specific harm to victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation compared to other forms of trafficking and this should therefore be reflected in the services and assistance provided to them. to reduce the demand that is driving the growing trafficking of people for sexual exploitation, more penalties need to be imposed on those who buy such sexual services, not just those who sell them.
written. ‒ trafficking in human beings is defined as the recruitment, transport, transfer, harbouring or receipt of persons, including the exchange or transfer of control over such persons, by means of the threat or use of force or other forms of coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of deception, of the abuse of power or of a position of vulnerability, of the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person, for the purpose of exploitation (directive 2011/36/eu). trafficking in human beings is a serious violation of the fundamental rights, human dignity and physical and psychological integrity of the victim, causing serious harm to the victims that may affect them for the rest of their lives. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's human rights policy and the implementation of the eu's human rights policy, including the implementation of the eu's human rights policy, and the implementation of the eu's human rights policy. the issue of trafficking in human beings is of paramount importance and the effectiveness of preventing and combating trafficking in human beings must be at its highest level. i support this report because i believe that such a level of effectiveness requires that member states make full use of europol's capacities to enhance the exchange of information with europol and that trafficking in human beings is recognised, in the legal and political framework of the european union, as a gender-specific phenomenon requiring gender-sensitive measures.
written. ‒ according to article 5 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, trafficking in human beings is a violation of fundamental human rights, as well as a violation of the personal integrity of the victim and a serious form of organised crime that undermines the state and the rule of law. although victims range from both sexes, ages, and social backgrounds, statistics clearly show that the majority of victims are women and girls. i believe that prevention is key in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and therefore member states must do everything in their power to prevent people from becoming victims. i also support the proposal that member states design prevention initiatives in cooperation with social partners, civil society and survivors of trafficking, taking into account best practices. i am aware of the fact that many migrants and refugees are victims of human trafficking, but i cannot support a solution that would fight this kind of organized crime by opening our borders even more. we must discourage traffickers by tightening, not loosening, our immigration policy. that's why i abstained.
madam president, an important part of taking advantage of the eu's single market and the new times we live in is e-commerce. i support the new rules introduced by vice-president ansip which will allow both consumers and businesses to benefit more from the benefits of the single market. online shopping should be simple and secure, but many obstacles and limitations often make consumers give up on this way of shopping. first, they have to enter a lot of personal information when they buy, then often the card they have doesn't match the terms of the purchase, and if they do manage to make the purchase, they are surprised by the delivery costs, the length of the customs procedure in case of a purchase outside the eu, and so on. in a world of computers and the internet of things, it is safer and easier for eu citizens to travel to a retailer. with this new set of rules, we are making a positive change and i look forward to making future online business easier and safer.
madam president, the european single market, the digital market, should become the fifth european freedom. i have already spoken about this in this parliament, but i am convinced that without this we have a truly complete fifth european freedom as a digital single market, there will be no competitiveness against the united states, china and other large markets. it's the only way we have to go, and everything that we see here today is great, it's good, but i think we need to be even more ambitious, because if we're not more ambitious, we're not going to be competitive. what i want to take away from the three points that you've talked about is to take away the issue of security of buying in e-markets and e-commerce. i think that this trust, which is objectively decreasing today rather than increasing, in the e-commerce system, we have to do everything to strengthen this trust, because otherwise we will lose on competition here too.
madam president, i also welcome and thank first vice-president timmermans for presenting the key positions of the european commission ahead of the 42nd g7 summit, an important forum for global governance which has provided the european union with an opportunity to articulate its views on the issues on the world agenda for some 35 years. in this context, its analysis that most economic factors and indicators have improved at the eu level should provide an incentive for those eu countries that are not at that level, both in terms of growth and in terms of reducing employment and implementing structural reforms. the commission should also be able to use the information contained in the annual report to assess the impact of the union's policies on the environment and the environment. what i think is important for this g7 meeting is that, in addition to the issues that mr timmermans mentioned, when it comes to finding common solutions to both the migration and refugee crisis, we need to see what contribution the european union can make in linking this crisis to the goals of the european union's sustainable development policy and the 2030 agenda. of course, in this regard, we also need to contribute to the dialogue on strengthening overall trade relations at the global level, concluding agreements where we will take into account the interests of our consumers and our standards when it comes to public health. it is also important to agree on further cooperation at the level of global security and foreign policy.
the g7 summit this week will include greece among other topics. the latest measures and aid given to greece are just a drop in the bucket of relief from the greek crisis and its debts. this was confirmed by insufficient measures which cast doubt on the success. without serious change and reform, greece will not be able to pay back its debts, and the other eu countries will have to continue to help if we want to keep the eurozone as it is. perhaps greece should leave the eurozone and after consolidating its economy and the whole system, return to the eurozone.
madam president, in the past many judgments of the european court of justice have fallen into the realm of judicial activism and have served as a basis for the removal of competence from member states. i have to admit that i've been quite skeptical since then, but this ruling served as a good trigger for changing a somewhat outdated regulation that did not provide the highest level of data protection, and in that sense i'm satisfied. privacy shield offers a whole range of guarantees that the rights of our citizens will be respected on the other side of the atlantic. i consider particularly important the inclusion of an american ombudsman to monitor complaints from european citizens and the introduction of a new mandatory 45-day deadline within which companies will have to deal with complaints from citizens. i believe our citizens will be pleased that for the first time, there are clearer limits on access to data by american institutions, and there is a system of enforcement control by the commission, which will report back to this house. significant progress has been made and we absolutely support it.
madam president, i have no doubt about the good intentions of the commission, i have no doubt about yours, mrs jura, and i cannot help but say that what is being proposed and what you have presented to us is, of course, a kind of progress. allow me to express even a small doubt as to the ultimate success of what is being achieved. safe harbor, later privacy shield, and the call to accept umbrella agreements are good ideas, and even the names are very creative. we have to say that those who want to get at our data, those who want to harm our privacy are also extremely creative and can get at our data. unfortunately, i have no doubt that today the know-it-all in the united states knows everything about me, probably everything about you, mrs. sophia in't veld, mr. schultz, mr. juncker. unfortunately, i have no doubt of that, and i don't know when we'll finally be able to stop it.
the economies of the european union and the united states account for more than 50% of world gdp, 25% of world exports and more than 30% of world imports. these are the two most lucrative economies in the world, with a combined value of transatlantic trade of $1 trillion in 2014. the data flow between the united states and the european union is about 15 terabits per second, by far the largest data flow in the world. i believe that the free flow of data between the eu and the us is crucial for the growth of trade and investment, as transatlantic transactions and services between businesses have become a reality, and consumers on both sides of the atlantic are increasingly using the internet to buy goods and services. internet access in the us is 85%, and in the european union it is 90%. the internet is available everywhere in the world, and i am convinced that the resolution on transatlantic data flows will open up the possibility for the european union to expand trade and investment in developing countries. so i think there's going to be an increase in international trade online and the need for the free flow of data. i see this resolution as a step in that direction.
mr. commissioner, why is he waiting? why wait two years? we have a clear ruling from the european court of justice. what are we waiting for? well, isn't the health of our citizens our first priority? we all know that endocrine disruptors affect the health of citizens, the most severe forms of disease of citizens, such as breast cancer, other forms, hormonal disorders. we know the problems that we face when we use different products, when we use all of these in agriculture. do we really have to wait, commissioner? put yourself in the role of parliament. parliament cannot wait and i trust you understand that we cannot wait.
mr. president, pula is the first city in croatia to introduce the e-citizen system. how important this was for our citizens, the economy of pula, istria and croatia is witnessed by many very positive examples. i therefore strongly support your intention, commissioner, to get this e-citizen and eu-wide identification system in place as soon as possible. of course, in this context, cross-border cooperation is particularly important to us, i.e. cross-border e-identification of every citizen, every economic entity that has such a need. i would like to take this opportunity to express my strong support for the commission, because i believe that this is the only right way to make the european economy more competitive and to provide our citizens with an even better service.
mr vice-president of the commission, in order to achieve our energy climate targets as we committed to in paris, we must move more boldly towards an energy transition that will increase citizens' participation. individual and collective action by citizens in the form of energy cooperatives is key, as it contributes to energy democracy. it sustainably promotes local economic growth and employment and effectively addresses serious social problems such as energy poverty. to achieve this, i believe that several important conditions must be met: to give citizens and companies access to cheaper capital and to encourage innovative financial instruments and business models, to encourage the development and widespread use of advanced smart grids, to apply the concept of smart cities in cities, and to make the use of smart numbers mandatory in all member states. the commission should define general guidelines for national energy strategies, and member states should change energy strategies and national action plans by involving citizens and cooperatives and by changing legislative frameworks, support policies and market access.
mr president, i would like to thank mr sefcovic, the vice-president of the commission, and also our colleagues, mr kelly and mrs griffin, who have made a good report. it seems to me that while there is a heated debate about whether to continue nord stream 2, whether to jeopardize european security, make the eu dependent on russian gas, we are working on this issue and bringing the issue of energy back to the center, to the citizen. we're putting citizens at the center, and it's really good that we're working on eradicating energy poverty. i think the term "prosumer", which is derived from "producer" and "consumer", is a very good term that says that citizens need to be aware, they need to become both producers of energy and consumers. i hope that the aim of this report is to seriously reduce the consumption of other energy sources, to bring the economy into a state of exclusively using renewable energy sources, and i believe that this is the aim of this report and i hope that this is the ideal that we should all strive for together. in any case, energy policy must be directed towards consumers, not suppliers, and must be transparent. i hope we can do that after this report, and i think the key is clean and safe energy.
mr president, we finally have the right guidelines for creating a real european energy union. namely, here we see a clear desire for decentralisation versus centralisation of systems, de-monopolisation versus monopolisation in systems, in member states and also a clear commitment to more renewable energy sources versus fossil fuels. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union guidelines and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union guidelines. this is a real proof that they are on the right track, because on this occasion and in this report we see how important it is to put citizens first, how we can then also win their corresponding trust.
written. the aim is to empower citizens to produce, use, store and trade their own energy, individually or collectively. citizens must have the right to participate actively in the energy market and the right to consumer choice and consumption management. the introduction of smart meters would help consumers to reduce their energy costs and improve energy efficiency. energy poverty is a growing problem in the european union, affecting some 54 million europeans who are unable to heat their homes adequately or to obtain other energy services at an affordable price. well-targeted social tariffs are important for vulnerable citizens. the application of social tariffs should be transparent and the good practices of member states should be highlighted and recommended to others. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
written. when considering new benefits for energy consumers, and supporting new models that contribute to a greater diversity of energy market participants and thus to foster local economic growth and employment, especially at the local level, we must not forget those on the margins of society and their own livelihoods. energy poverty is unfortunately a growing problem across the eu, with a study by the european commission showing that 11% of the eu population are unable to heat their homes at affordable prices. it is estimated that some 54 million people are affected. the problem is particularly pronounced in the eastern and southern eu member states, with the highest proportion of the population at risk of energy poverty in romania (40-50%) in 2012 and an estimated 30-40% in croatia. as regards arrears in payment of bills, croatia also ranks high among eu member states. together with cyprus, latvia, romania and slovenia, 36-48% of the population cannot afford to pay their bills regularly, which speaks volumes about energy availability. these problems are caused by rising energy prices, low incomes and poor energy efficiency in homes. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the energy market and the impact of the new rules on the energy market. this situation has to change.
madam vice president, thank you very much for giving me the floor for being the shadow reporter on this report. mrs arena and i have worked very well together and there are a number of good things in this report about women's poverty and the causes of women's poverty. the data is truly alarming. however, unfortunately, despite the good cooperation, we have not been able to reach a compromise and neither i nor my group will be able to support this report because it contains a number of sensitive issues that should not be the subject of this report, which are not directly or indirectly related to the causes of women's poverty, and it is about points that are not in line with the values inherited by the european people's party nor are they related to the causes of women's poverty. i am referring in particular to subsidiarity and to some of the issues which i really do not think should have been part of this report. that is why we will not be able to support this report, even though we are for eliminating the causes of women's poverty.
madam president, is our future virtual currency? is our future in cryptocurrency, digital money, bitcoin, whatever you call it, really a big question? and we all rightly ask ourselves that. however, i want to point out that it's interesting that estimates say that about two million people today use this digital money. of these, as many as 25,000 are citizens of croatia. atms were installed in three croatian cities, zagreb, split and rijeka a few days ago. a really very interesting future that has already started in some ways in the world of finance. i want to highlight two problems. the first problem is exchange rate volatility and the second problem is the problem of savings because no one guarantees any savings in this digital, virtual money. all the other problems have already been mentioned, new problems will be found, but in any case i want to deal with this subject in the near future.
madam president, i take this opportunity to emphasize once again the serious problem we have at the border crossing between the republic of croatia and the republic of slovenia. the border crossing and the road leading from it to the city of buje are a real disgrace for both the republic of slovenia and the republic of croatia. as the mayor of istria, i tried to get the authorities in ljubljana and zagreb interested in solving this problem, but there is no interest from the authorities in zagreb and ljubljana. that's why i've prepared a letter that i'm going to send to commissioner bulc tomorrow, in the belief that she'll sensitize ljubljana and zagreb to finally fix the border crossing between kaštel and sečovlje so that we can have a real business card when someone comes to croatia or slovenia.
madam president, mr. hogan, i'll make it very clear, you are not to blame for this crisis. since i've been in politics, and that's more than 25 years, and before that, the european union has always had problems with overproduction of milk and butter, and i've always read about it, and as an economist, i've always been a little bit surprised. what are the solutions, because the crisis is here, what are the solutions? certainly, one solution is to increase the production of dairy products. we need to encourage more production of milk products, because it is evident that we have a significant increase in cheese exports to various countries outside the european union. we should maybe look at the dutch model which is just interesting and gives some news and help to the dairy farmers. i would also like to stress the possibility of giving financial support to those milk producers who want to give up production, to re-schedule production or simply to stop production. and that might be one of the things we can do.
madam president, commissioner, the situation in the dairy sector in croatia is dramatic, as almost 2000 dairy farmers have gone bankrupt in just one year. the milk buy-back price has fallen to around 23 euro cents, self-sufficiency in milk production has been drastically reduced, and every second liter on the market is imported. milk and dairy products of inferior quality are dumped in croatia and destroy domestic production. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. farmers cannot be left to the market when the market is not fair. the commission has introduced intervention measures, but they are not sufficient. i think that we should ensure that the intervention price for milk is not lower than 30 euro cents, because anything else is a disaster for milk producers. the dairy industry needs to be stopped from blackmailing producers and preventing them from bringing producers into a slave relationship. while some of the money was being placed in panama, the farmers were putting money into the budget. let's save them with their money! the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162, paragraph 8 of the rules of procedure).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. dear colleague, farmers who produce milk also deserve to have a decent life, which means they have to earn the optimal price. according to some estimates, the optimal cost of production is 30-40 euro cents. to make money for them and to buy this excellent quality milk at an affordable price for consumers, we need to bring order to the market. so we have to stop the hoarders, the hoarders and the hoarders, and that is why i am in favour of intervening, to stop those who destroy milk production by dumping prices, as well as those who destroy both producers and consumers by unfair trading practices.
mr president, the report is a step in the right direction, recognising the importance of smes for the european economy and highlighting the main obstacles they face in the single market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the refit programme and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the use of the european commission's website. simplifying rules and procedures, reducing production and trade costs and facilitating access to public procurement throughout the european union can only be supportive. however, i cannot agree with the call on the commission to fight tax disparities in the union, because i believe that the harmonisation of tax rates is absolutely harmful to the poorer member states. they cannot compete with more developed countries with good infrastructure and greater legal certainty for investors and entrepreneurs, except for lower tax rates, and we would condemn them to permanent backwardness.
mr president, i want to support this report on the single market strategy clearly and i want to highlight five elements of this report. the first is to strengthen the role of smes and their right of access to information, finance and funds. the second thing i want to support is tax harmonization, because i think it is very important for the functioning of the single market. the third thing i want to support is the digital single market that we talked about a lot yesterday, and the digital single market is a big assumption that the digital economy is going to finally see the light of day and be competitive on european soil. fourth, of course, is the strengthening of crossborder services and fifth, perhaps even most importantly in this report, i support the made in logic, because i believe that quality and the consumer's right to a country of origin and a product that is made with quality and to know where it is made are extremely important for the future of the european economy.
mr president, i am in favour of the introduction of the made in label because i believe it is important to establish a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products in the union, as parliament has already called for. this would put an end to the disproportionate and highly unequal situation in europe and would have numerous and varied positive effects for citizens, consumers, producers and the european economic and social environment as a whole. such an instrument would clearly highlight the added value of many local and traditional products, with clear benefits for producers, the regions from which the products come and consumer awareness. the affixing of appropriate information on retail, handmade and industrial products, in particular the indication of the country of origin, is essential to protect consumers and to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting. because it's important for consumers to know that the lepoglava lace is indeed made in lepoglava, the petrinja stucka in petrinja, the slavonian goldsmith in slavonia, and not somewhere else in the world. with the made in label, we protect our traditional crafts and the golden hands of our people.
written. ‒ the issue of virtual currencies is very complex, but it is certainly a reality and regulation is needed in this area. i congratulate my colleague dante on his work and i support his work.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on virtual currencies (2016/2007 ((ini)) because i think it is extremely important that the eu parliament addresses this development issue. there are several important facts on this topic: there are more than 600 virtual currency systems in place today; technology is rapidly providing new solutions that the legislative framework cannot keep up with; virtual currencies can contribute to the well-being of the economy and citizens, reduce transaction costs, costs of access to finance, ensure transparency and reduce the risks of irregularities; and risks such as high currency volatility, the possibility of inflation and speculation, limited regulatory scope, can become a source of financial instability, potential monetary policy constraints due to the increased use of virtual currencies, potential for a 'black market'". i support the proposal to create a proportionate regulatory approach at eu level that will support innovation and not hinder it by excessive costs, and i support the need to prepare a comprehensive review of the state of virtual currencies and consider a review of the relevant eu payment system in line with technological development possibilities. in all this, it is important to take account of the information and protection of eu consumers.
written. ‒ the popularity and use of virtual currencies has been growing in recent years, but there is currently no universal definition of what virtual, or digital, currencies are. the european banking authority (eba) has taken the view that virtual currencies are considered to be a digital representation of value that does not have to be linked to fluctuating real currencies. the eba also found that virtual currencies can only be traded if legal and natural persons accept them as a means of payment and interchange. bitcoin as the most prominent virtual currency after seven years in circulation has gained a significant impact on the financial sector using decentralized transaction logging (dlt) technology. the technology has enabled the decentralised, relatively secure, resilient and fast record-keeping of various transactions. the benefits and opportunities that virtual currencies and dlt open up are mainly related to reducing transaction costs and ensuring simpler use with the possibility of ensuring different levels of privacy. the risks associated with virtual currencies and dlt are still unknown and such that they will only be able to be defined by their widespread use. i supported the european parliament's report on virtual currencies on the grounds that virtual currencies and dlt can have a positive impact on economic development and contribute to prosperity.
written. ‒ virtual currencies allow money to be transferred without the intervention of banks. dlt, the virtual foundation of tech currencies, can have a significant impact on the financial sector and beyond. the commission should be able to conclude that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. today's investment in dlt is growing strongly and some of its applications could quickly become systemic. dlt is likely to be applied primarily in areas where trust, proof of identity and ownership are important. the commission should also be able to assess the risks associated with the use of virtual currencies and dlt in the context of the adoption of the directive. all of this is the data that the headline warns about. i welcome the recommendation of the european commission on the need for a comprehensive review of the state of virtual currencies and the possibility of revising the relevant legislation and i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ the european parliament pointed out that virtual currencies and dlt have the potential to contribute positively to the well-being and economic development of citizens, including the financial sector, by reducing transaction costs for payments and, in particular, cross-border transfers of funds, very possibly to below 1% compared to current costs of 2% to 4% in traditional online payment systems and more than 7% on average for cross-border transfers of remittances, which could reduce the total global cost of remittances by up to eur 20 billion. the commission also noted that the commission had not provided any evidence that the dlt would be able to provide a reliable and efficient solution to the problem of the digital divide. the commission considers that the dlt should be used as a means of ensuring that the dlt is not used for the purpose of the provision of services to end-users. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the regulatory environment and the regulatory environment, including the impact of the proposed amendments on the regulatory environment and the regulatory environment. i support the motion for a resolution of the european parliament and stress the importance of consumer information, transparency and trust in the use of virtual currencies.
written. ‒ alongside electronic tools aimed at facilitating the movement of people, goods and services, extremely rapid technological changes are also taking place in the area of the management and transfer of capital and cash. in doing so, virtual currencies are taking on an increasingly wide scope as a means of financial exchange, which we need to respond to with appropriate market-based safeguards. the commission has also identified a number of other areas where the use of electronic payment systems is likely to be affected by the introduction of new payment services. the report stresses the need to harmonise the existing legal framework established through the implementation of technical expertise in the member states in order to avoid these measures being adopted without first confirming their correctness and functionality, taking into account the risk to the safety of citizens when carrying out such operations. i supported the report by mr von weizsäcker and i particularly emphasise that valid measures can be found in existing regulations such as the emir and csdr regulations as well as existing directives so that the creation of further electronic facilities is a benefit for citizens and not a new reason to worry about the level of privacy and security they enjoy.
written. ‒ as a universally applicable definition has not yet been established, virtual currencies are sometimes referred to as digital cash and are considered by the european banking authority (eba) to be a digital representation of a value that is not issued by a central bank or a public authority, nor is that value necessarily linked to a fiat currency, but is accepted by natural or legal persons as a means of payment that can be electronically transmitted, stored and traded. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the definition of the concept of 'financial services' and the definition of the concept of 'financial services' and the definition of the concept of 'financial services' in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the use of virtual currencies on the financial services market, in particular on the provision of financial services to consumers and consumers in the union. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the financial markets, in particular on the financial markets, in order to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the financial markets. the commission has also requested the european parliament and the council to adopt a legislative proposal on the dlt directive.
written. ‒ there is still no universal definition of virtual currency, but it is sometimes referred to as digital cash. the payment service provider shall ensure that the payment service provider is able to accept the payment instrument as a payment instrument for the purpose of payment transactions in accordance with the payment service provider's payment services agreement. there are currently over 600 virtual currencies, the most famous of which is bitcoin. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of virtual currencies on the functioning of the internal market, in particular by taking into account the impact of the digital currencies on the functioning of the internal market. virtual currencies can create systems that combine ease of use, low transaction and operational costs and a high degree of privacy, but not full anonymity, so that transactions can be traced to some extent in the event of a breach. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that virtual currencies will allow the pairing of different types of traditional and innovative payment methods into one secure, easy-to-use application. i believe that this could improve certain aspects of e-commerce in europe and further deepen the single market.
written. ‒ i supported the report which recognises the potential of virtual currencies and decentralised transaction record keeping technologies to reduce transaction and operational costs for cross-border transfers. i believe virtual currencies can reduce the cost of access to finance for people without bank accounts and make it easier to buy goods online. i would like to emphasise that it is very important to inform consumers, i.e. to provide current and future users of virtual currencies with accurate, clear and complete information in order to ensure the transparency of these systems and consumer protection.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which provides financial support to the french workers made redundant by moryglobal, as it allows them to remain in the labour market and actively contributes to dealing with the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. in this context, it is noted that in europe there has been a decline in the production of tangible goods, and accordingly the volume of goods to be transported has decreased and the cost of road transport has increased. therefore, i support the provision of financial assistance to the dismissed workers of this french company in the quickest and most efficient way.
written. ‒ the egf was established to provide additional support to workers facing the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. applications for workers' support shall be submitted to this fund and, in the event of a positive assessment of the application, it shall be submitted to the budgetary authority for mobilisation of the fund together with the corresponding transfer request. in the event of disagreement, a trialogue procedure shall be initiated. in this context, on 7 april the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of france in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of a total of 2132 workers declared redundant in moryglobal sas. this procedure concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 146 800 from the egf for france and the commission has concluded that, in accordance with all the provisions of the egf regulation in force, the application qualifies for a financial contribution. the reason for the redundancies is bankruptcy and closure of the company, and according to the estimation of the french central bank, the number of bankruptcies in the road freight transport sector has increased by 35%, which is considered to be a consequence of the economic crisis. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a report on the implementation of the measures in the member states, in particular on the implementation of the measures in the member states, on the implementation of the measures in the member states and on the implementation of the measures in the union.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support workers declared redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. major structural changes in the world's trade flows have once again led to significant losses for some companies, this time moryglobal in france. as many as 2,093 workers at that company were declared redundant. aware of the difficult situation of these workers, i support the request of the french authorities to grant them a financial contribution from the globalisation adjustment fund of eur 5 146 800, covering 2132 workers. this financial assistance is necessary to alleviate the disadvantage of workers declared redundant and to enable their reintegration into the labour market.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, the global financial and economic crises, in order to help them re-enter the labour market. the egf shall not exceed the maximum annual amount of eur 150 million (2011 prices) as laid down in article 12 of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013. i agree to accept the request concerning the 2132 workers made redundant in moryglobal sas. the company was mainly active in the economic sector - inland transport and pipeline transport, and in storage and ancillary transport activities. the redundancies at moryglobal sas occurred across mainland france. according to eurostat, as a consequence of the global financial and economic crisis, road freight transport by vehicles weighing more than 3,5 tonnes decreased by 13,7% in the eu and by 21% in france from 2007 to 2012. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share increased by more than 10% during the period considered.
written. ‒ a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) of eur 5.1 million was requested by france to help the dismissed workers of mory global sas, which went bankrupt amid the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows in the transport sector. the egf, as an important eu instrument to support businesses affected by the negative effects of globalisation, will provide additional support to 2132 redundant workers across france to find new jobs. the measures to be taken to assist workers made redundant, co-financed by the egf, shall consist of counselling and mentoring for workers made redundant and investments in business start-ups and worker take-overs. it is important to increase general awareness of the egf and its visibility and to enhance communication between all parties involved in the application for mobilisation of the egf, in particular the social partners and stakeholders at regional and local level, all with a view to achieving the greatest possible synergies. in the light of the above, i supported the report by my colleague anneli jäätteenmäki on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf.
), written by ‒ in line with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission, union financial assistance to workers declared redundant should be dynamic and accessible, but also faster and more efficient. i support this report because i believe that workers, who are facing the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and the global financial and economic crisis, should be given additional support and help to re-enter the labour market, using the legislative and budgetary instruments established by the european union. the adoption of the egf regulation reflects the agreement between parliament and the council on increasing the efficiency of the processing of applications to mobilise the egf in the commission, parliament and the council by reducing the time taken, further extending the rules on eligible actions and beneficiaries to include self-employed persons and young people, and reintroducing the criteria for mobilising the funds in the event of a crisis. furthermore, the condition that at least 500 workers in an enterprise in a member state are declared surplus in a reference period of four months is met and i therefore support the report.
written. ‒ i voted against the request by france to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the dismissed moryglobal workers to return to the labour market. although i agree that a series of losses of this company are caused by the decline in the production of tangible goods in europe which has led to a reduction in the volume of goods to be transported and to an increase in prices in the road transport sector, i believe that such measures are not sufficient to restore this sector. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgets, the recovery of this sector and the reduction of unemployment can be achieved by reducing the tax burden and administrative obstacles faced by companies.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of redundancies in the greek cooperative supermarket larissa, as the financial assistance will cover 557 redundant workers and 543 young unemployed persons. the financial crisis that hit greece deeply affected the greek economy, and consequently a major decline in purchasing power and consumption followed. i believe that in such cases it is essential that the financial assistance of the european union is dynamic and available as quickly as possible in order to prevent long-term exclusion from the labour market and further weakening of european economies. therefore, i support this report.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is specialised in providing assistance and support to people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural change and the dynamics of the business environment. the egf for the period 2014-2020 has an annual budget of eur 150 million, of which up to 60% may be covered directly from the fund. the egf is intended to cover the financing of the purchase of buildings, the purchase of equipment and the purchase of equipment for the construction of buildings. the egf may be mobilised only in cases where more than 500 workers in one undertaking are made redundant or where there is a large technological surplus in a particular sector in one or more regions. greece has submitted an application to mobilise the egf in favour of larissa supermarket. the request concerns 557 workers made redundant by supermarket larissa abbe, which operates in the sector of 'retail trade, except motor vehicles and motorcycles'. the regions affected by the redundancies are central macedonia and thessaly (nuts 2). i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa application, as i believe that the adequate use of the egf can create new jobs for workers who have lost their jobs.
written. ‒ over the last year, we have voted in favour of a number of decisions on the use of the european fund for the relief of disadvantaged workers. the major structural changes in world trade flows caused by globalisation and the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis have again led to significant losses for some companies. in fact, 557 workers at the larisa supermarket in greece were declared tech surplus. conscious of the plight of the displaced workers, i support the greek government's request for assistance and the allocation of a financial contribution from the globalisation adjustment fund of eur 6 468 000. it should be noted that workers who are declared redundant are likely to have difficulty finding work. this financial assistance is necessary to enable them to re-enter the labour market.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, the global financial and economic crises, in order to help them re-enter the labour market. i agree with the request concerning the 557 workers laid off from the supermarket larissa abee. this company operates in the economic sector of 'retail trade, except motor vehicles and motorcycles'. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek economy was in a situation of serious economic crisis. according to elstat, the greek statistical authority, since 2008 greek gdp has decreased by 25,7 percentage points, public consumption by 21 percentage points, and private consumption by 32,3 percentage points, while unemployment has increased by 19 percentage points. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state.
written. ‒ request for the activation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for eur 6,4 million requested by greece to assist the dismissed workers of supermarket larissa, which went bankrupt due to the decline in purchasing power of greek households, following the collapse of the greek economy as a result of major structural changes in world trade flows. the request concerns 557 dismissed workers and 543 young people not in employment, education or training and under 30 years of age. in view of the situation in greece, which has been hit extremely hard by the financial crisis, and the fact that the greek economy has been in deep recession for six consecutive years, the link between the redundancies and the global financial and economic crisis referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 is clearly visible. it is important to increase general awareness of the egf and its visibility and to enhance communication between all parties involved in the application for mobilisation of the egf, in particular the social partners and stakeholders at regional and local level, all with a view to achieving the greatest possible synergies. in the light of the above, i have supported the report by my colleague, ms liadh ní riad, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf.
written. ‒ i support the mobilization report of the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece, as the measures are expected to cover 557 dismissed workers, as well as 543 young people under 30 from the same regions who are not in employment, education or training. union financial assistance to workers in need should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission. i also believe that the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of global changes in world trade flows, as well as to help them reintegrate into the labour market. the egf is intended to help redundant workers in small and medium-sized enterprises, as in the case of this example from greece.
‒ the european union has established legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes caused by the global financial or economic crisis and their reintegration into the labour market. the conditions to be met for these measures to apply are that a minimum of 500 workers in one undertaking must become redundant within a period of 4 months in a member state. the hellenic republic submitted an application under the name egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa for financial contributions from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 557 workers eligible to participate in these measures. of these, the majority of the workers, 363, are women. parliament notes that an additional 543 persons under 30 years of age from the same region as the workers concerned, who are not in a position to work, study or train, will also be covered by these measures and will receive personalised assistance financed by the egf. i support this report because i believe that it is a financial compensation that will help workers who have become redundant in their companies as a result of globalisation to reintegrate into the labour market.
written. ‒ greece has applied to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in response to the bankruptcy and closure of the larissa supermarket in order to introduce measures for redundant workers. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. since the beginning of the economic and financial crisis in greece, thousands of businesses have closed down and household consumption and purchasing power have been reduced. the retail sector in greece is in an unenviable position, but these short-term measures will not help its recovery. i agree that we need to pay extra attention to keeping jobs, production and expertise in the union, which can be achieved by reducing bureaucratic obstacles and tax burdens. since no such solutions were offered in this report, i voted against.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr gianluca buonannoni because of the telephone threats that mr buonannoni claims to have received from an unknown caller. the members of the european parliament are entitled to vote in the european parliament by secret ballot. therefore, i support the waiver of immunity.
written. ‒ this report concerns a request for the waiver of the immunity of mr gianluca buonann, member of the european parliament. the request for waiver of immunity of gianluca buonannu concerns the access of the investigating authority to the records of telephone calls to the mobile phone number of that representative for the date on which he claims to have received threatening telephone calls. it is not for the european parliament to interpret national rules on the privileges and immunities of members of parliament, and in the case in question it appears that no pressure is being exerted on the member concerned to influence him, as the procedure relates to alleged threats reported by the member himself as a victim of telephone threats. for reasons of legal certainty, parliament granted the request for authorisation made by the deputy public prosecutor of the regular court of vercelli ad cautelam and decided to waive the immunity of gianluca buonanna, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ whereas the request for the waiver of the immunity of gianluca buonannu relates to the access of the investigating body to the record of telephone calls to the mobile phone number of that member for the date on which he claims to have received threatening telephone calls; whereas in his request for the waiver of immunity the deputy public prosecutor of the tribunal de vercelli acknowledges that it is not clear whether that parliamentary privilege should also apply to cases in which the member in parliament is the alleged victim of a crime; whereas he concludes that, nevertheless, it is the best interpretation of national legislation that that privilege should apply to members in parliament regardless of their procedural role; whereas he does not, however, cite any case of national case law to support this conclusion; whereas that conclusion is that, regardless of the appropriate legal basis for the waiver of immunity, the decision of the tribunal de vercelli to waive the immunity of the member in question appears to be satisfied with the opinion of the college of public prosecutors which has been given to the request for the waiver of immunity;
‒ the deputy public prosecutor of the tribunal of vercelli has requested authorisation to obtain from telephone companies the telephone records of the number used by gianluca buonanno, member of the european parliament elected in italy, in connection with the criminal proceedings brought by that member of the european parliament before the tribunal of vercelli concerning telephone threats which he claims to have received from an unknown caller to his mobile phone number on 14 april 2015. since it is indisputable that in the case in question there appears to be no pressure to influence the said representative, since the proceedings relate to alleged threats reported by the representative himself as a victim of telephone threats, i supported the report.
written. ‒ the request for waiver of the immunity of mr gianluca buonannu concerns the access of the investigating authority to the record of telephone calls to the number of the representative's mobile phone for the date on which he claims to have received threatening calls. it is not disputed that in this case no pressure is being exerted to influence him, as the proceedings relate to alleged threats reported by the lawyer himself as a victim of telephone threats. therefore, for reasons of legal certainty, i consider it appropriate to grant the request for authorisation made by the deputy public prosecutor of the regular court of vercelli and i voted to waive the immunity of the italian member of parliament, mr gianluca buonann.
written. ‒ i voted against the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the introduction of provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of sweden in accordance with article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1523 and article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1601 introducing provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of italy and greece, as i support relocation on the basis of fair and objective redistribution. i believe that it is necessary to increase solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states. i therefore support the alde group's position calling on member states to provide assistance to persons in need of international protection in an appropriate manner. the great efforts that sweden has shown in accepting asylum seekers should certainly be taken into account, but refusing resettlement programmes is not the best way to help sweden.
written. ‒ sweden is in a crisis situation due to a sudden influx of third-country nationals and a significant increase in the number of unaccompanied minors on its territory due to sudden changes in migration. during 2015, it had the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu (11 503 applicants per million inhabitants) and in march 2016 it received a total of 170 104 applicants, including 73 331 children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors, who have special needs and need additional resources to enable them to access healthcare, decent housing and education in accordance with eu asylum rules. on 8 december, sweden formally requested the suspension of its obligations in accordance with council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601 as it had to face the dual challenge of being a country of first entry and a country of final destination. this report accepts the commission's proposal with the proposed amendments to introduce temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden, and i therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ in march this year, sweden received over 170 000 asylum applications. of the total number of applications, more than 73 000 were submitted by children, including 36 000 minors with special needs. the country had by far the highest number of applicants for international protection in 2015, over 10 000 per 1 million inhabitants. the commission has also provided information on the number of asylum applications submitted by the member states in the past year, including the number of applications submitted by the member states in the past year. the commission has also received comments from the swedish authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the swedish authorities have not fulfilled their obligation to relocate. as a representative from a country that has taken in a million refugees in its own imposed war, i understand the pressure on the swedish asylum system, and on material and humanitarian resources, as a result of the migration movement. sweden has shown itself in this crisis, as during the war in bosnia and herzegovina, to be a state that helps in humanitarian crises, and i think that the request of that state is reasonable.
written. ‒ i disagree with the rapporteur, ms keller, that the commission's proposal to temporarily suspend sweden from the relocation scheme should be rejected. i agree that certain member states can and should do more to welcome refugees. however, sweden is in a crisis situation due to a sudden influx of third-country nationals due to sudden changes in migration flows. sweden requested the suspension of its obligations in accordance with council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601 because it faced a dual challenge, being both the country of first entry and the country of final destination. sweden had by far the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu in 2015 (11 503 applicants per million inhabitants) and received a total of 170 104 applicants in march 2016, including 73 331 children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors. sweden is also in a difficult situation due to a significant increase in the number of unaccompanied minors; 25% of applicants claim to be an unaccompanied minor and they have special needs and need additional resources to enable them to access healthcare, decent housing and education in line with eu asylum rules. i therefore agree with the commission's proposal to temporarily suspend sweden from the refugee relocation scheme.
written. ‒ as part of the common asylum policy, article 78 (3) tfeu provides for a specific legal basis for dealing with crisis situations and the temporary measures provided for are exceptional. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. on the basis of article 78 (3) tfeu, the council adopted two decisions establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. i supported the report of ms keller because the current migration situation in sweden is unique in the eu and, due to the pressure on the capacity to process applications for international protection and to ensure adequate reception conditions for persons in need of international protection, a temporary suspension of sweden's commitments under the relocation mechanism and the provision of operational support to sweden is necessary. the swedish authorities have not provided any evidence that the asylum seekers are in a situation of serious irregular migration. in order to help sweden to cope with the exceptional pressure on its asylum and migration systems, specific support should be provided through relevant activities coordinated by easo and other relevant agencies.
the european parliament has adopted the commission proposal with the proposed amendments to the council decision on the introduction of provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden in accordance with article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1523. parliament also asked the council to consult it if it intended to make substantial amendments to the commission proposal. i support the commission's proposal with the proposed amendments, as i consider that it is a technical change which will result in a more clearly worded decision whose content will remain essentially the same.
the european parliament accepts the commission proposal with the proposed amendments to the council decision on the introduction of provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden in accordance with article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1523. parliament also asks the council to consult it if it intends to make substantial amendments to the commission proposal. i support the commission's proposal with the proposed amendments, as i consider that it is a qualitative change aimed at a clearer decision. the content of the decision remains essentially the same.
written. ‒ as part of the common asylum policy, article 78 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides for a specific legal basis for dealing with crisis situations. the council, acting on a proposal from the european commission and after consulting the european parliament, may adopt provisional measures for the benefit of one or more member states facing a crisis situation due to a sudden inflow of third-country nationals into one or more member states. as sweden has formally requested the suspension of its obligations because it is in a crisis situation due to sudden inflows of third-country nationals into its territory, i supported temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden. sweden faces a double challenge and problem because it is both the country of first entry and the country of final destination. therefore, i consider the commission's recommendation to suspend the quota for sweden for one year to be correct.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the transatlantic data flow, because the protection of personal data is one of the fundamental rights of the union and because it is of the utmost importance to take account of the content of the rules applicable in a third country when it comes to the level of protection provided by such a country. the importance of transatlantic relations and the fact that the cross-border flow of data between europe and the usa is the largest in the world should be emphasised. in this context, it is necessary to prevent legal uncertainty and to establish clear and uniform rules in order to promote business development and growth. the eu's privacy regime with third countries, and in particular with the us, is crucial to the development of transatlantic relations, consumer trust and cooperation in law enforcement, and i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ the development of the information society and electronic commerce at a global level has led to an increase in the movement of data, and thus the risk of misuse of data and interception of communication flows. such abuse acts as a brake on the development of e-commerce, in that it undermines consumer confidence and often constitutes an invasion of the right to privacy. the right to privacy is a fundamental right in the eu and it is the duty of the european commission to ensure an adequate level of protection of this right of european citizens also in third countries. after two years of negotiations, the european commission and the us have concluded a transatlantic data exchange agreement called the 'security shield' to protect the fundamental rights of european citizens guaranteed by european law when their personal data is transferred to the us. i consider that the agreement reached has not achieved its purpose, as i consider that it jeopardises the legal security of citizens and poses a risk of loss of protection of personal data. i therefore support the title resolution and call on the commission to enter into negotiations with the us to improve the legal framework for data protection.
written. ‒ in case c-362/14 maximilian schrems v data protection commissioner, the court of justice of the european union concluded that the commission's claim that the us provides an adequate level of protection for eu personal data under the 'safe harbour' was invalid, resulting in the need to conclude urgently the negotiations on the eu-us privacy shield agreement (privacy shield) in order to ensure legal certainty regarding the way personal data is transferred from the eu to the us. the commission has also concluded that the us privacy shield is a legitimate and appropriate remedy for the breach of the privacy shield principles, and that the us privacy shield is a legitimate remedy for the breach of the privacy shield principles. i welcome the fact that the eu-us privacy shield agreement differs significantly from the safe harbor framework in that it provides for a much more detailed documentation, imposes more specific obligations on companies willing to join the framework, and includes a new control system to ensure that eu citizens' rights are respected when their data is processed in the us. at the same time, i hope that the agreed independence of the u.s. attorney will be guaranteed. otherwise, the whole concept is worth reconsidering.
written. ‒ the protection of our citizens' data must always be a top priority when concluding international agreements. this commitment must also be the aim of future policies that extend the eu-q data protection directive to encourage our partners to share the same interest in data protection. what the new agreement defines is the existence of a safety net so that documents that are exchanged cannot be misused, thereby ensuring that the differences in data protection laws between the us and the eu do not harm our citizens. i supported the european parliament resolution because it stresses the importance of clear transparency on both sides of the eu-us partnership, while ensuring a greater and faster flow of information relevant to national security issues.
written. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the eu-us privacy shield agreement negotiations after more than two years of negotiations between the european commission and the us department of commerce. the data flow between the united states and the european union is about 15 terabits per second, by far the largest data flow in the world. the free flow of data between the eu and the us is of significant importance for the growth of trade and investment as transatlantic business-to-business transactions and services have become more common. consumers on both sides of the atlantic are increasingly using the internet to buy goods and services, in line with recent trends. i believe that the transatlantic flow of data, and the fact that internet access has spread around the world, opens up the eu to the expansion of trade and investment and exports. so i think there's going to be an increase in international commerce online, and there's going to be a need for the free flow of data. in this context, the protection of personal data, respect for privacy and communication, as well as the right to security and to conduct business, are fundamental rights that the european union must guarantee as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
written. ‒ the protection of personal data, respect for privacy and communication, and the right to security and to conduct business are fundamental rights that the european union is obliged to respect as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the data flow between the united states and the european union is about 15 terabits per second, by far the largest data flow in the world. the free flow of data between the eu and the us is crucial for the growth of trade and investment, as transatlantic transactions and services between businesses have become a reality and consumers on both sides of the atlantic are increasingly using the internet to buy goods and services. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that the transatlantic flow of data, as well as the fact that internet access has spread throughout the world, opens up the possibility for the european union to expand trade and investment in developing countries. that is why i believe that there will be an increase in international trade on the internet and the need for the free flow of data, and i see this resolution as a step forward in that direction.
written. ‒ the european commission has published an estimate that the average household could save between 10 and 30% on heating and cooling alone if they could know what they were spending at any given moment. in much of the eu, bills come quarterly, or even annually, so the consumer cannot know until january of the next year how much the product will cost. in some eu countries, savings are already a reality. in estonia and the scandinavian countries, consumers can access online real-time consumption calculations and predicted savings of 30%. on behalf of the socialist and democratic club i believe that no one should have to choose between electricity, heating, water or health services or education. it should be borne in mind that most energy vulnerable citizens are not active in the energy market and therefore social tariffs should not only be enabled but also promoted.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on creating new benefits for energy consumers, because it is necessary to enable consumers to become active participants in the energy market as investors, producers and shareholders. in addition, in addition to ensuring an energy system that functions efficiently and effectively, it is necessary to ensure greater transparency and consumer protection and better access to information related to energy flows. in this context, it is necessary to encourage the faster development of information and communication technologies, such as mobile applications and online platforms, in order to provide consumers with easier access to reliable information and real-time data on their energy consumption. this is a significant cost saving, energy efficiency improvement and greenhouse gas emissions reduction, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ one of the key objectives of the third energy package is to ensure that the retail energy market is transparent and competitive and that it is beneficial for all consumers. the objective has not yet been fully achieved in all member states, resulting in uneven consumer satisfaction across the union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the energy union's policies and actions. the union's energy policy should be based on the principle of the sustainable development of the energy sector, which is the cornerstone of the union's energy policy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i supported the report on achieving new benefits for energy consumers to achieve greater progress in the rational use of energy, the development of new energy-technological innovations and better energy management for all consumers.
written. ‒ i welcome the report on the realisation of new benefits for energy consumers. the common european energy policy is also an important component of the croatian economy. the eu imports 53% of its energy needs each year and pays more than €1 billion a day for energy imports. in addition, energy infrastructure is outdated, national policies are not coordinated and the market is not integrated. in many member states, regulated tariffs continue to restrict the development of effective competition. the energy union, an ambitious european project, is precisely aimed at providing eu consumers with sustainable, competitive and affordable energy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the light of the outcome of the european council in copenhagen in december 2016. so we need to move away from an economy based on fossil fuels and relying on outdated technologies and use the renewable energy and resources we have in a smart way. i believe that consumers must have a choice between multiple energy suppliers and control over their energy costs, and that socially vulnerable groups of consumers must be protected from energy poverty.
written. ‒ the european parliament stressed that this report focuses exclusively on household energy consumers in the context of the energy transition, and pointed out that the issue of industrial consumers should be considered in a separate framework. the commission also noted that the union's energy policy was based on the principle of the 'one country, two systems' approach, which was not reflected in the union's energy policy, but rather in the union's energy policy. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market, in particular the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection. i support this motion for a resolution and believe that it is extremely important to establish and define the fundamental right to own energy production and consumption in the context of the revised renewable energy directive.
written. ‒ despite the changes in the energy sector in europe over the past decade, retail channels in the energy market have not made the necessary changes. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy from renewable sources. the commission's vision of a new electricity market model aims to provide new benefits for energy consumers, including through better linking of wholesale and retail markets. by using new technologies, new and innovative energy service companies should enable all energy consumers to participate fully in the energy transition, managing their own consumption through energy efficient solutions that will save money and contribute to the overall reduction of energy consumption. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on smart home technologies and services, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on smart home technologies and services. i supported the report by ms griffin and the proposed steps needed to achieve the eu's objective, because realising the new benefits of the union's energy strategy means putting consumers at the centre of a successful and functioning energy system.
written. ‒ by reducing household energy consumption and respecting the principle of energy efficiency first, i.e. energy savings, an economy based entirely on renewable sources needs to be established. i support this report because i believe it is necessary to provide citizens with stable, affordable and efficient energy, and to empower citizens to produce, use and trade their own energy, individually or collectively, and to take measures to save energy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the member states in the energy market.
written. ‒ this report focuses on household energy consumers in the context of the energy transition, while the issue of industrial consumers should be considered in a specific context. the energy transition is the transition from an energy system based on traditional centralised production to a more flexible, decentralised and energy efficient system based on renewable energy sources. the ultimate goal of this system is an economy based entirely on renewable energy sources. such an economy can be achieved by reducing energy consumption, respecting the principle of energy efficiency first and giving priority to energy savings. in this way, it will also contribute to the eradication of energy poverty. the parliament considers that the interests of citizens and future generations should be at the heart of the energy union. i support this report because i believe it is the first step towards providing citizens with stable, cheaper, efficient and sustainable energy, and high-quality and energy-efficient products and services. i also believe that this report lays the foundations for enabling citizens to produce, use and store their own energy individually or collectively and to become active participants in the energy market.
written. ‒ the report on delivering new benefits for energy consumers supports the plan to increase consumer purchasing power with price comparison tools and information on energy efficiency programmes. it also requires eu funds to promote energy efficiency, self-renewal and other cost-cutting measures to reduce energy bills for citizens with poor or poor access to energy. i believe that the commission should take concrete action in the field of promoting responsible consumer behaviour and preventing energy poverty. i also believe that member states should develop national action plans based on public participation to promote small and medium-sized renewable energy projects and energy cooperatives, and i supported the report on delivering new benefits for energy consumers.
written. - i'm extremely sorry that some right-wing mps didn't support the report. the report calls for the use of european union funds (efsi) to create care facilities, to enable women to enter and stay in the labour market, legislative initiatives to improve work/life balance, gender balance (maternity, paternity, parental leave, carer). the eu guarantee of free access to health care, education is sought.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on poverty: a gender perspective, because in europe more than 65 million women live in poverty compared to 57 million men. poverty promotes exclusion, lack of health care, severe housing problems, and negative effects on the children of poor people. therefore, member states need to take concrete and more serious measures in equalising opportunities between men and women in the areas of employment, social care, education and pay. in this context, it is necessary to ensure the economic independence of women and to enable them to advance professionally in all segments. it is important to emphasize that the poverty of women is not only caused by the recent financial crisis, but by a variety of factors, such as stereotypes, gender pay gaps, discrimination, and others. therefore, i support this report.
written. ‒ this report highlights the inequalities faced by women and highlights the efforts the eu and the member states need to make to provide equal opportunities for all in terms of employment, social protection, pay, education and childcare. the problem of women's poverty and their social exclusion has been addressed through numerous resolutions and has been completely eliminated. by 2015, little progress had been made in the light of the efforts made. in times of economic crisis and recession, the people most affected by the risk of living in poverty are mostly women. they are in a vulnerable position, both in terms of social protection and in terms of their position on the labour market, and are subject to multiple discrimination. according to eurostat, the number of women at the poverty line and those affected by poverty is constantly increasing. that number is 64.6 million, while for men it is 7 million less. women are generally more likely to take on the responsibility of caring for elderly or sick family members, which is most often reflected in interrupting their careers. however, i abstained in the vote because in many areas this report goes beyond the scope and encroaches on areas which are the express competence of the member states.
written. - the sad fact that we cannot escape is that women are more affected and more vulnerable to poverty than men. women living in rural areas are even more disadvantaged their unemployment rate is extremely high, they are often not registered on the labour market, those who are employed have extremely low incomes and they face problems in accessing education and healthcare. i am therefore pleased that my amendments, which call attention to the situation of rural women and call on the member states to contribute to improving their quality of life and that of rural people in general, have been accepted in this report. i am pleased that my call for a minimum national pension that cannot be lower than the poverty line has also been recognised. however, i could not support the report in its entirety as in many respects it goes beyond the scope of the subject of the report and the scope of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and the eu as a whole, and intrudes into areas of the express competence of the member states.
written. ‒ the report of the committee on women's rights and gender equality emphasised the fact that women are more often victims of poverty than men. the figures show that 64.6 million women struggle with poverty compared with 57.6 million men. the reason for these differences is stereotypes that lead to unequal pay and pensions between the sexes. 38.9% of the population and 48.6% of single women are unable to cope with their expenses. i agree with the decision of parliament to reduce the gender gap and i believe that we will achieve this by increasing care for children and dependent family members. we need to work on empowering women to become self-employed.
written. ‒ currently, 64.6 million women and 57.6 million men are affected by poverty, and in 2014, women were particularly at risk of poverty in all 28 eu member states. however, it should be stressed that the rate of women affected by poverty varies significantly between member states. also of concern is the fact that the number of women living in poverty has been steadily increasing, increasing by 50 percent since 1975. on the other hand, women do two-thirds of the world's work and produce half the world's food, yet they receive a meager 10% of the world's income and own less than 1% of the world's property. in order to alleviate the problem of poverty among women, it is essential to highlight the high quality of public services in the fight against poverty for women, who are more dependent on such services than men, and to encourage and engage men to promote gender equality in all areas and at all levels of the labour market. it is important to align macroeconomic and social policy reforms and labour market-related policies with gender equality policies in order to ensure economic and social rights for women.
written. ‒ the number of women affected by poverty remains consistently higher than the number of men. currently, that number is 64.6 million women compared with 57.6 million men. almost 40% of the population and almost 50% of unmarried women in the member states of the european union are unable to cover unforeseen costs. the number of women living in poverty in rural areas has increased by 50% since 1975. gender equality in the labour market benefits not only women but also the whole economy and society. the gender pay gap is 16,3%, and women are more likely than men to be employed under atypical and precarious employment contracts, which place them at an additional risk of poverty. the resolution also calls on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. i would support the report not to contain sensitive items that are not in line with the values that are the heritage of the epp and that are at odds with our views, especially with regard to subsidiarity, and items that have no direct or indirect connection with the causes of poverty.
written. ‒ statistics show that women are more likely to be poorer than men and more at risk of hunger because of the systematic discrimination they face. since the start of the economic crisis, poverty levels in europe have increased and according to eurostat, the number of women affected by poverty is still higher than the number of men, currently standing at around 64.6 million women compared to 57.6 million men. the reasons why women are more affected are numerous. while i support some of the proposals in the report, such as flexible working hours, equal pay and the role of education in achieving equality, i do not believe that the european parliament has the power to regulate minimum wages. although it is emphasised that this would take into account the circumstances of each member state, i consider that this should be entirely a matter for the member states. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on non-tariff barriers in the single market, as i believe that the eu should continue with market integration and continue the process of removing all barriers that hinder business in the economic sector (especially trade) and thus weaken the overall competitiveness of the eu economy. the fact is that 20 years after the establishment of the single market, unjustified non-tariff barriers continue to affect trade and the free movement of goods and services. one of the tasks of the eu and its member states should be to remove all unjustified non-tariff barriers. i support the conclusions requesting the commission to present this year a comprehensive overview of non-tariff barriers and an analysis to address this problem. the commission should ensure that member states respect existing single market rules.
‒ the creation of the single market is one of the union's greatest achievements, enabling significant success in the removal of trade/customs barriers. the single market after 20 years of establishment is limited by various unjustified non-tariff barriers which have a significant impact on the restriction of trade throughout the union. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the existing vat system on the taxation of intra-union trade in goods and services. the full functioning and completion of the single market through the removal of non-tariff barriers would result in economic gains for all consumers and producers of between eur 651 billion and eur 1,1 trillion annually. one of the tasks of the union and its member states should be to remove non-tariff barriers which are unjustifiable or incompatible with the objectives set out in article 3 (3) of the treaty on european union, which states that the development of europe is based on a highly competitive social market economy. the digital single market and single market for europe strategies are initiatives that need to be implemented swiftly in order to reduce non-tariff barriers in the single market. i supported the report because the removal of non-tariff barriers will make it easier for companies and manufacturers to do business in the union, which will also have a positive impact on final consumers.
written. ‒ unjustified non-tariff barriers continue to affect trade and the free movement of goods and services between member states more than 20 years after the single market was established. this needs to change and urgent action is therefore needed at union and member state level to strengthen the single market and the competitiveness of the european market economy. i consider it necessary to ensure easy access to information on differences in national regulatory conditions, with a focus on optimising and improving the existing system. the commission should establish a single access point through which businesses and consumers will be able to access all information relating to the single market. cross-sectoral and sectoral non-tariff barriers are numerous, but solutions such as promoting a culture of compliance, paying more attention to the guidelines for the implementation of directives and improving the application of the principle of mutual recognition are set out in the report and i support them. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected.
written. ‒ the european parliament considered that, despite the fact that customs barriers were abolished on 1 july 1968, the free movement of goods and services was still hampered by non-tariff barriers such as unjustified national technical regulations and regulatory and non-regulatory requirements relating to products, service providers and conditions of service provision, or bureaucracy. it also stressed that urgent action at union and member state level was needed to address such non-tariff barriers in order to strengthen the single market. the commission also stressed that differences in the speed of transposition and the exact application of existing directives at national level lead to legal uncertainty for companies and unequal conditions of competition in the internal market. i agree with that report and stress the importance of the principle of mutual recognition to guarantee access to the single market for goods which are not harmonised at union level, as well as in cases where member states have national rules on products which are very often different but which have the same basic objective.
written. ‒ non-tariff barriers are those 'less visible' rules and regulations that make it much more difficult to trade goods and services across the national borders of a member state. on the other hand, non-tariff barriers in the eu single market constitute a benefit to economic operators, which takes the form of lower prices and a wider choice, which is a relevant achievement for union citizens in domestic and foreign trade. the full removal of unjustified non-tariff barriers remains an objective to be achieved, as, although the tariffs have been removed, they remain an obstacle in national legislation as the full potential of the market is not being realised. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. however, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and multi-level governance, such obstacles should not be removed and preventive action is the most optimal. i supported the report by mr dalton because better and more consistent enforcement of existing rules, a change in member states' attitude and the application of best practices can create better conditions in member states' markets.
written. ‒ the completion of a single market for the free movement of goods and services, public procurement, the digital economy and consumer legislation would bring significant economic gains to the european union. unjustified non-tariff barriers can have a significant impact on trade and the free movement of goods and services between member states and can be the result of protectionism. unfortunately, there are a number of provisions in union legislation that negatively affect the proper functioning of the single market, thus reducing the potential gains from a functioning single market. similarly, weaknesses in the single market, such as incomplete implementation of eu legislation and implementation that is contrary to the objectives of the single market, often lead to a poor choice of products or higher prices for goods and services for consumers. i support the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market, as i believe it is essential that single market strategies for europe include initiatives that need to be implemented quickly, effectively and ambitiously in order to reduce non-tariff barriers in the single market.
written. ‒ unjustified customs barriers continue to affect trade and the free movement of goods and services between member states. the controls recently imposed on foreign service providers are increasingly intensive and numerous. member states shall ensure that such controls are proportionate, justified and non-discriminatory. it is estimated that the completion of a single european market for the free movement of goods and services, public procurement and the digital economy would generate up to eur 1 trillion a year, representing around 8% of the european union's gdp. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the union's external action on the union's external trade policy. it is also necessary to establish a single access point through which businesses and consumers will be able to access all information relating to the single market and all data necessary for cross-border business in the european union. i support the recommendations set out in this report because i believe that the completion of the european single market can benefit everyone, the european union, the member states and the citizens themselves. the single market is a joint initiative that requires coordinated and joint maintenance and makes a significant contribution to european economies.
written. ‒ i supported the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market because i believe it will facilitate the movement of goods and public procurement within the european union and thus contribute to the development of the european economy. the commission also found that the measures in force were not in line with the union interest. in view of such discriminatory rules, i consider that the commission should remove non-tariff barriers as soon as possible. while it is necessary for member states to create rules that are not subject to european or international standards, those rules must be in line with the principles of the single market. this will create a clear and uniform regulatory environment that enables market development, protects workers and consumers and ensures a favourable environment for existing and new companies on the european market.
written. - i'm extremely pleased that all my amendments have been adopted. i am particularly pleased that the amendment i had with my socialist and democratic colleagues on the introduction of mandatory origin labelling for products, the so-called 'made in', was adopted. the commission notes that the information provided by the croatian authorities is not sufficient to establish the existence of a market economy operator. of these, 18.7% consider that the omission of the country originated from the product information in order to hide the quality of the product. the commission also adopted amendments to the rules on the introduction of a designation of origin for non-agricultural products. in the case at hand, this means that the way is being opened for slavonic goldfinch, paskha lace and brachy stone to be given a geographical indication, whereas only original and indigenous agricultural products such as lambskin and potatoes have been granted such indication until now. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
written. ‒ i voted for the single market strategy report (2015/2354 ((ini)) as the single market is the foundation of european integration and the benefits of completing the single market are estimated at €1 trillion. the report supports the commission's overall objectives set out in 'improving the single market: more opportunities for people and businesses' and welcomes its actions in key areas that enable the single market to reach its full potential. the report highlights that in labour-intensive sectors such as retail and hospitality, there is a great potential for job creation, integration and tackling youth unemployment. in relation to the measures and actions towards the single market already adopted, attention should be focused on their proper implementation and the reduction of infringements in the context of the single market. the commission and the member states should carry out an analysis of unnecessary restrictions in the single market. in addition to economic aspects, attention needs to be paid to creating a fairer single market that will benefit and protect citizens, consumers and businesses in terms of better quality, greater diversity, reasonable prices and the safety of goods and services. the commission should integrate the social economy into its single market policies and develop a european action plan for social economy enterprises.
written. ‒ the single market is the foundation of european integration, a driver of sustainable growth and job creation, as it enables trade across the union and guarantees a highly competitive social market economy. this report emphasises the importance of further integrating the single market and harmonising rules and measures at union level, such as trade and tax rules, which would contribute to the harmonisation of competition in the market. in order to realise the full potential of the single market and to promote sustainable growth, internal demand and purchasing power must be strengthened, innovative measures adopted and investments made in the green economy. to this end, it is essential to reduce the administrative burden and the cost of alignment for smes and to support their technological upgrading and business modernisation through the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and programmes such as horizon 2020, cosme, the european structural and investment funds. in view of all the above, i have endorsed this report.
‒ the european market of 500 million consumers with a high purchasing power, which they want to access as quickly and easily as possible, must be organised in such a way as to provide consumers with all the relevant information necessary to make an informed choice. this is precisely the way in which the designation of origin of certain products contributes to the recognition of europe in its diversity and to the promotion of the quality of the products. the 'made in' label, first introduced in 1887, has contributed over the past century to a strong concern by national governments and economic operators for the quality of the products they produce and market, and to consumer perceptions of the country of origin. the label has thus contributed significantly to the branding of the product and to the recognition of certain brands and their products through an acceptable price, the longevity of the product and the guaranteed quality behind the country of origin. aren't these the very ideas that we want to implement today through the circular economy versus the unsustainable consumption system that we're witnessing today? i believe that the responsibility of all the players in the single european market, including consumers, is that the introduction of mandatory country of origin labelling for certain non-agricultural products can help the european economy in the time ahead as an added value for products.
‒ the european parliament supports the overall objectives of the commission's single market strategy for goods and services entitled 'improving the single market: more opportunities for people and businesses' and welcomes its actions in key areas that enable the full potential of the single market to be realised for the benefit of consumers, employees and businesses, and in particular start-ups, with a view to increasing sustainable jobs and the growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the commission shall encourage the development of cross-sectoral policies that achieve a fairer and more competitive single market in accordance with title ii of the tfeu on provisions of general application. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities, including the provision of services, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of services to the public authorities. i welcome parliament's report and believe that the single market strategy can provide new opportunities for smes, which are the backbone of the european economy, and for micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups.
written. ‒ the single market has been and remains the foundation of eu integration and the backbone of sustainable development and job creation by enabling trade between member states. it defines the eu as a single area without any internal borders or regulatory barriers to the free movement of services, goods, workers and capital. for these reasons, the eu single market is undoubtedly one of the union's greatest achievements, as it encourages and facilitates the daily business life of european economic operators and consumers through the use of a variety of mechanisms. i supported the comi report because i believe that the single market should be strategically advanced, developed and strengthened through 'cross-cutting' policies. the eu market needs to develop in the direction of new market technologies, in particular the digitalisation of processes. the removal of all non-conventional barriers - whether legal, political or economic - must be a focus of the eu, as must achieving a greater degree of transparency in public procurement procedures and local market defragmentation. in addition, the commission should monitor the implementation and enforcement of legal aspects that must be in line with eu law in order to prevent possible breaches of the provisions governing this area.
written. ‒ the single market is a driver of sustainable growth and jobs, but also a foundation for european integration as it allows trade across the union. it also ensures a highly competitive social market economy. i support this report because the deepening of the european internal market is one of the main economic issues, particularly in terms of the development of new technologies. if physical, legal and technical barriers are removed, further progress can be made in the field of the single market, which has seen many positive changes in recent years. i believe that only with the full support of all member states and their cooperation with each other will the full potential of the single market be realised. in addition, in order to achieve concrete and rapid results in terms of competitiveness and job creation, it is necessary to remove unjustified barriers to the single market. i consider that reducing unnecessary regulatory, administrative and practical obstacles to smes is one of the priorities, as smes should be the engine of the business sector in europe.
written. ‒ the single market has been and remains the foundation of european integration and a driver of sustainable growth and job creation, as it enables trade throughout the union and guarantees a highly competitive market economy. the deepening of the european internal market remains a major economic issue, especially in the context of the development of new technologies. positive developments have occurred in recent years, but unjustified barriers need to be removed in almost all areas to achieve more, as barriers reduce consumer choice and increase the cost of products and services. the economic consequences of the financial crisis are still being felt and gdp in several member states is still below 2008 levels, which requires a genuine strategic approach to further integrating the single market. a genuine single market should benefit citizens, consumers and businesses in terms of better quality, greater diversity, reasonable prices and the safety of goods and services. i support the recommendations set out in this report, as i consider the establishment of an internal market in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is fully guaranteed to be a key objective of the european union. i believe that the guidelines set out here lead to a more modern and innovative single market.
mr. president, this year marks the 35th anniversary of the first scientifically documented case of hiv infection. when it comes to hiv, early diagnosis and timely treatment are crucial, but education and prevention are even more important. values-based education and responsible behavior will help our children become responsible young people, so it's worth investing in. it is even more important to talk about responsible behavior today as we face disturbing trends that show an increasing number of children and youths between the ages of 10 and 19 are becoming infected with hiv. more than 30 million people have died of hiv to date, but international experts confirm that aids could be eradicated as a public health threat by 2030 if at least 90 percent of those infected with hiv are diagnosed and started on antiretroviral treatment. to achieve this goal, the most vulnerable and the poorest need to be reached. 22 million people still lack access to treatment, and most don't even know they're infected. it is estimated that nearly 26 million people in sub-saharan africa are infected with hiv. a big role in hiv testing and treatment, especially in this part of the world, is played by religious organizations, and caritas international has taken the lead in promoting care for people affected by hiv. two months ago, caritas and faith-based organizations also issued guidelines to eradicate hiv in children by 2020. although the number of cases and deaths among children have decreased in recent years, and more than 70 percent of infected pregnant women have received treatment to prevent transmission to their children, treatment is available only for 820,000 of the 2.6 million children living with hiv. international caritas and faith-based organizations are working with world-renowned experts, they've developed research programs, their methods are effective, but they're short of money. we have the funds, let's put them in the right hands!
mr president, on a personal example that i lived through in the 1990s, i want to show how open conversation, awareness of the problems of hiv, aids or aids and the fact that they are sick, especially when it was in the 1990s, can certainly become a problem for the environment in which he lives, where his children go to school, because his wife moves around the small town in which this good friend of mine once lived. unfortunately, he's gone now because back then, medication was almost non-existent. i just want to make one point. we need to invest as much as we can in education, as much as we can in prevention. we need to be the european union to lead in this, as we are today, to continue to do this, because only in this way, by nurturing open awareness and publicity about this problem and by investing in medicine, in education, in prevention, can we solve this great epidemic.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking our permanent rapporteur, mr predi, for the report which i believe will be adopted by a large majority in parliament. he has already stressed, and i will repeat, that indeed our development cooperation, in order to be effective, requires the coordination of all european union policies in the interests of sustainable development. and indeed, much has been done in this area, for example in terms of the coordination of our agricultural policy. the fact is that our trade policy must also be harmonized, but i would not share the critical tone of the colleague who spoke before me. it seems to me that free trade is one of the key growth drivers for developing countries. that the benefits of free trade are many, and the most obvious is the generation of economic growth through increased commercial opportunities and investment and the increase in the productive base through the development of the private sector. and i think that's something to consider, too. in any case, the alignment of eu policies with development objectives is a key element, and we all agree, in achieving the new 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and we must not fall into the trap of giving development aid on the one hand and taking it away on the other through other policies. that's right, yeah. i would perhaps emphasize the issue of illicit financial flows and perhaps we should also do a little more in this area, especially in the context of the new panama papers that have been published. so we need some new mechanisms here as well. but that doesn't mean that we should give up on development policy, but that our focus in these development policies and in other policies, both internal and external, should be precisely on fighting corruption, promoting good governance as the basic prerequisites for sustainable and equitable development.
(speaker not heard) be fully aware that the migrant crisis is certainly not going to stop. the migration crisis will only intensify significantly and create additional difficulties if our global policy and coherent policy in what it means to be development aid are not sufficiently effective in terms of synergistic effects. synergy, european union policy, synergy of member states' policies, but also synergy of those regions, those big cities, but also those small cities that want to participate in development, that's what the commission has to do. i also have a number of private companies, small and large, who want to participate in the reconstruction, and not with some hidden ambitions and hidden goals, but sincerely. so i call on the commission to be at the forefront of these synergies so that we can really make progress.
question posed by raising the blue card thank you, mr. deputy. croatia signed the so-called espo convention in 1996, that is, it joined the espo convention, and i say this because you have just now given the known details about what is happening in hungary and how this new nuclear power plant with russian technology is to be built. do you think that croatia should be fully involved and participate in all these decisions as a neighbouring country and moreover do you think that the european union should have a common policy when we talk about nuclear energy as a future strategy?
mr. president, i have no doubt that the new alliance for food safety and nutrition in africa, when it was established in 2012, had excellent intentions. what we need to be careful of is turning our good intentions into something that can become a kind of neo-colonialism. because there's no doubt that there are very big interests at stake here, and i would like to see the primary interests at stake being the interests of the african citizen, the small family farmers in africa, to have the right to land, to have ownership of land, to make sure that we don't all use the same seed in agriculture around the world. let's preserve biodiversity, what we can preserve of the beauty of agriculture that exists in africa and develop that agriculture on the parameters on which we have successfully developed european agriculture.
madam president, let me say at the outset that without high-quality harmonisation of international accounting standards, there is of course no single and competitive european market. in this report, which i certainly support, i want to make two points clear. the first issue is the public and the public interest that all companies that are listed on the stock exchange are treated in some way equally. of course we have legislation since 2005, but i think it is precisely in this element that the european union must be a leader in the global financial market. and the second theme is the question of equal valuation of the creditworthiness of companies. here too, the european union must be an incentive so that we do not have a situation where when a company is bought, when a company wants to invest in it, we do not have quality information about its creditworthiness.
madam president, the united nations, the european union and the african union are the key to success for stability and a more secure future for the african continent. but there are other countries that need to be called in, and they're already getting involved, of course, and the united states and china, which has several thousand troops ready to help in africa at any time. those are good examples. what nato does, those are good examples. what makes our countries, the european union, have spent one and a half billion euros on demining after various wars over the last 20 years. these are the things that we need to highlight, but of course we also need to highlight the serious problems. eco-migrants are what's happening to us today, and even more will happen tomorrow. eco-migrants will be increasingly affected by climate change, and it is high time that we take concrete steps to stabilize and secure africa.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you very much for your kind invitation to attend this presentation and for the exchange of views. i very much welcome mr van orden’s report on eu engagement with the united nations and the african union in peace support operations. i also very much appreciate the close involvement of both the committee on development and the subcommittee on security and defence on this important issue, which falls at the intersection of security and development. the un and the african union are our strategic partners in preventing conflicts, promoting stability and building peace in africa, including through the deployment of peace support operations in crisis and post-conflict scenarios. peace and security is a priority area of cooperation under both the africa-eu strategic partnership and the new eu-un strategic partnership. african-led peace support operations receive substantial financial support from the european union under the african peace facility (apf). as noted in the report, stronger emphasis will now be given to building the african union’s own capacities in order to enable it to respond to and manage crises by itself. the establishment of the african standby force is an important milestone in this regard. let me also recall that, through the apf, we provide support not only to african-led missions, but also to the overall african peace and security architecture and to the early response mechanism, which plays a critical role in conflict prevention and resolution by enabling african mediation and preventive diplomacy actions. we are working hard to ensure the financial sustainability of the apf, which is being called on to provide support to an increasing number of peace and security operations. but this needs fairer burden sharing with our african and international partners, as called for in the report. we raised this important issue at the recent meeting of the commission with the african union commission. eu crisis management missions and operations in africa, under our common security and defence policy, are also closely coordinated with the un and au, particularly when deployed in parallel to un and/or african union peace support operations, for instance in somalia, the central african republic (car) and mali. we maintain regular contacts with the african union and the un at all levels, from the planning stage to the end of the implementation stage, not only in the headquarters but also in the field, in order to ensure an efficient division of labour, to share relevant information, including on situational awareness, and, indeed, to conduct joint conflict analysis, for instance in the car. cooperation with the un in building african union peace and security capacities is also close and fruitful, not only in crisis management, early warning and mediation but also in policy areas such as security-sector reform and disarmament, demobilisation and the reintegration of ex—combatants. when building african capacities in police and criminal justice matters, we also discuss with the un relevant principles and approaches. beyond the specific case of africa, we also welcome the draft report’s support for the objectives of the recent joint communication on capacity building for security and development, which aims at better enabling our partners to prevent and manage crises by themselves, acknowledging the need to provide support to both the civilian law-enforcement services and the military, particularly in conflict-affected countries.
madam president, unfair trading practices in the food supply chain are numerous and commonplace, and i am extremely pleased that the rapporteur is tackling this problem in a serious and comprehensive way. in particular, i would like to highlight one problem faced by all small producers in croatia, namely the imbalance of bargaining power which has an adverse effect on contractual freedom, diversity of supply and price. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the price of the product concerned is higher than the price of the product concerned. the rapporteur proposes a good solution in the form of the creation of producer organisations which would put small producers in a more favourable negotiating position and i fully support him in this, but we must be aware that without a much stronger role for the competent authorities of the member states in informing and legal protection of small producers, this model will be difficult to implement fully and to give the expected results.
madam president, commissioner, is it not strange that in our markets we have the fair trade label for cocoa imports, for coffee imports, and then in our own market our producers find themselves in a situation where they have no fair trade, and are not in a position to defend themselves against the attacks, almost violence, that we have in the market. we are for a free market, but we are not for the freedom of violence in that market, because we want fair competition. the only fair competition, especially those who are smaller, weaker, but who are the key to the diversity of our tastes and smells in our european agriculture, are precisely those small producers who carry the diversity and the richness of diversity in europe and we must protect them also in the market, precisely in the way this report proposes, but also in the way that the member states must do.
written. i am committed to solving the problem of unfair trading practices, which is a cancer of european and croatian agriculture, by passing a law at eu level, because it has been shown that a voluntary approach to this problem does not produce results. the endlessly long payment deadlines and unilateral changes or breaks in contractual obligations by retail chains should be brought to an end. in the case of competition, measures targeting producers are often adopted, while unfair trading practices by buyers and their concentration to near monopoly levels are tolerated. farmers are reduced to begging sticks by such reckless and unfair treatment. does anyone wonder how these people live and educate their children if they are not paid for their products for a year and a half or if they are returned overnight on the pretext that they are not good enough just because cheaper and inferior imported goods have supplanted their product? since we have a common market, this problem should be solved at a common eu level. by law. and i want it now!
written. unfair trading practices are a serious problem in many economic conflicts. the importance of the food supply chain is high for the union, as this sector employs more than 47 million people, contributing up to 7% of gross value added at eu level. generally speaking, an unfair commercial practice can be defined as one that deviates grossly from good business conduct. i consider that unfair trading practices are an obstacle to the development and proper functioning of the internal market. consumers may be deprived of the diversity of the offer. such practices have serious negative consequences for farmers, such as reduced profits, higher-than-expected costs, overproduction and waste, and financial planning difficulties. such practices arise where there are imbalances in financial resources and i believe that they can have a detrimental effect on the union economy as a whole because they can lead to companies, in particular smes, losing their ability to invest. i believe that the adoption of common standards, as a means of combating such practices, will allow a labour market in which there are fair and transparent relations between all parties involved in the food supply chain.
(speech begins silent) agriculture, i'm all for using satellites, for using digital methods, but i'm not all for eating the same, i'm not all for having a situation where our health, our environment is being called into question. in particular, i'm not for those who need fish, and that's africa, those are some countries that are poor, they need fish, but i'm not for giving them fish, i'm for giving them hooks and learning how to fish. so i am not in favour of the european union, because of the world's rapidly growing population, becoming the sole producer of food, as somehow suggested in this report. i'm for really everybody having a hook and everybody catching fish and feeding themselves, that is, every country, every continent, every family can do it. therefore, i have reservations about this report and will not support it tomorrow.
madam president, technological progress is crucial for sustainable agriculture in the european union. agricultural production based on industrial production principles results in harmful effects on all environmental components and therefore we need new ways of thinking about technological progress by encouraging what reduces input costs and production costs with minimal impact and risks to the environment, health, food safety and biodiversity. but we also need new, more responsible regulation based on respect for the precautionary principle, especially when it comes to new techniques of plant breeding and cultivation. this report promotes new genetic engineering techniques and calls for an amendment to the eu's legal framework for gmos in order to facilitate their authorisation, which i strongly oppose. it promotes synthetic chemical pesticides by classifying them as low-risk even though they haven't gone through a detailed risk assessment process, which i consider irresponsible. i believe that the precautionary principle is the key to preventing damage that may far outweigh the intended benefits, and that politicians should take this into account when proposing reports or laws.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur ms mcintyre for the initiative to address many issues that have a profound interest for the agricultural sector. this report is one of two reports that we will be discussing this evening regarding the importance of innovation in the development of agricultural production. i share many of the rapporteur’s views which she has set out and i would like to comment on a few of the issues raised. what is particularly important is that the report focuses on the need for sustainable agriculture in the european union. the report identifies a number of the challenges facing european agriculture in the decades ahead, not least in terms of global population growth and the increasing demand for food. in view of these challenges and those posed by climate change and the european union’s commitment to meet the cop21 targets, the focus on sustainability is now more important than ever. there are a number of aspects of the report that i welcome, including precision farming, soil and nutrient management, skills development and knowledge transfer. i welcome, too, the emphasis on reducing bureaucracy and red tape, all of which is consistent with my commitment to simplify the cap. there is little doubt that big data and precision farming hold significant promise for the future of agricultural production in europe, and the report encourages the commission to stimulate the development and uptake of precision farming and to remove the barriers to the integration of fragmented ict systems. the commission is in fact very anxious to encourage more precision farming, but the conclusions of a focus group organised by the eip network recently were that farmers are hesitant in the use of precision farming for several reasons. they do not want to be locked in by a single supplier of software and/or machinery. they want to retain ownership of their own data and they want to see whether an application has added value before they invest. in view of the sustainability challenges that food production is facing, precision farming technologies offer many possibilities and we believe that many eip pilot projects under the rural development programme will show the usefulness of precision farming. later this month our eip service point will host a seminar to bring together businesses, many of them start-ups, that based their business model on the use of big data in the agricultural sector. it seems that we all share similar concerns regarding genetic diversity. it is in our common interest to have a wide agricultural genetic diversity, but farmers will opt for the highest-yielding varieties and breeds, and as a result, we have already lost genetic diversity and risk losing even more. we have several tools to prevent this, such as support for in situ conservation – under rural development – and support for research in this area. on top of that, we now have an interesting pilot project made possible by a budget attributed by the european parliament, on the sustainable use of genetic resources, looking for new market opportunities for certain neglected varieties or breeds. finally, i would like to come back to the issues of skills development, knowledge transfer and research priorities. farming is changing and will continue to change, and like many other sectors it is becoming an increasingly knowledge-based industry. as ms mcintyre’s report says, we need the right skills for this. i note and welcome the importance you attach to the eip and to on-farm demonstration. knowledge transfer and knowledge generation are key and we should constantly ask ourselves whether we can improve our policy in this area. i have seen many good examples of innovation and the outcomes of research, and i can see the potential of such developments. however, i am only too well aware that this potential will never be realised unless we can translate the innovation into practical on-farm application, as you have recognised in your identification of the importance of knowledge transfer. traditionally we link knowledge generation also to research. in january we had a conference in brussels to discuss with the sector what the priorities for such a long-term research agenda should be. the outcomes of that conference will certainly be taken into account, both for research programming under the remaining part of horizon 2020 and beyond. finally, let me thank ms mcintyre again for the report, and for the very many very relevant issues that were raised.
madam president, the continuation of a successful common agricultural policy and the maintenance of sufficient production of high quality food for european consumers also depends on innovation in agriculture. innovation is needed in the development of techniques and technologies, but also in financing systems and all levels of governance, all to support the food security of europe's population and to help the sustainability of europe's rural areas. i thank the rapporteur for accepting my amendments and thus highlighting in the report the important role of small and medium-sized family farms, which make an outstanding contribution to the creation of socially and economically vibrant rural areas and to the preservation of cultural and natural heritage. unlike industrial agriculture as we see it on other continents, the european way of farming is almost at the personal level, consumer-oriented and as such, in terms of its added value, recognised on the global market. i want this relationship between agricultural producers and consumers to survive and to continue to develop, supported by the innovation of european science and economy.
mr president, clear and simple tax rules and the prevention of special tax treatment and out-of-the-box agreements are key to creating a favourable business environment and the smooth functioning of the single market. community, cooperation, efficient exchange of information between the tax administrations of the member states are the basis for establishing a system where taxpayers will be correctly identified and double taxation avoided, because we have an even bigger problem than double taxation. however, the desire to prevent tax evasion and to punish tax evasion should not make it more difficult for businesses to operate and impose new tax and administrative burdens on them. we need a single global approach and single solutions, but respecting the specificities of the business environment in the member states.
mr. president, corporations should give back to society a portion of what they contribute by selling their products and services to its members. tax evasion and tax evasion are dishonest practices that often result in a lack of money for the quality public services that modern governments want to provide to their citizens. but the problem is not just corporations, but governments that reach for high taxes because they can't or won't consolidate public finances in other ways. it is also an unfair practice towards those who create new value, employ people and make our lives easier with their products and services. taxes must be paid, but they must be reasonable. in 1980, the eu's current members accounted for 30% of world gdp, and today they account for 17%. the acceleration is happening in the rest of the world, not in europe anymore. if we are to keep up, we must not use crazy tariffs to force capital out of the european union.
mr. president, citizens pay taxes, craftsmen pay taxes, small and medium-sized businesses pay taxes. large and multinational companies do not pay taxes or try to avoid them or do everything to avoid paying them. so what we really need to do is to support the oecd rules, to support the commission's intentions, because i am deeply convinced that only in this way, with the presumption of quality cooperation of the member countries, their tax agencies, their tax authorities, the tax services of individual member countries, their close coordination can solve this problem to a great extent. the principle is that where there is profit, where there is profit, where there is profit, everything that is taxable, should be taxed at the place of origin. so i am convinced that in this way and what this commission is proposing at this point is a good step forward to put an end to all those who avoid taxes and to allocate more resources.
written. ‒ i support this decision as it relates to the ratification of the world health organisation's fctc protocol by which the eu joins global efforts to combat the smuggling of tobacco products. the damage from tobacco smuggling is twofold, as it negatively affects public health and public budgets.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, with the exception of its provisions falling within the scope of title iii of part v of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as this gives the consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i consider that that protocol contains measures and policies in the area of combating illicit trade in tobacco products which can provide substantial support in addressing this problem. the illegal trade in those products contributes to the loss of revenue for the eu due to non-payment of taxes and customs duties and has an impact on the deterioration of the public health situation. therefore, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the first health treaty is called the world health organization framework convention on tobacco control (fctc). the agreement is designed as a key response to the global epidemic of tobacco dependence. the union's contribution to the fight against tobacco smuggling is estimated at eur 5 billion. the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products was drawn up on the basis of the agreement and adopted on 12 november 2012. the protocol constitutes the only multilateral regulatory initiative active in relation to tobacco products. the union signed the 2013 protocol, but 40 countries need to ratify it in order for it to become active and to enter into force. the illicit trade in tobacco products is considered a criminal activity that endangers public health. this increases the availability of cheap and highly hazardous tobacco products. the illicit trade in tobacco products, in addition to its negative health effects, also has a negative financial impact. it causes huge revenue losses due to unpaid customs duties and unpaid taxes. the financial loss is estimated at more than eur 10 billion per year. i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament because i believe that it is necessary to eradicate the illicit trade in tobacco products as it endangers public health and damages the union budget.
written. ‒ illegal trade in tobacco products is damaging the budget of the republic of croatia due to unpaid taxes and duties. for this reason, cooperation between eu member states is essential to tackle this problem as effectively as possible, and i therefore consider it very important that the european union urgently ratifies the world health organisation's protocol to combat illicit trade in tobacco. suppressing or reducing illegal sales and increasing prices would reduce consumption and premature death. statistics show that one in three adults in the republic of croatia is a smoker, and the average croatian smoker smokes 20-30 cigarettes a day. it is estimated that in croatia, smoking kills about 14,000 people a year. in order to better protect human health, international cooperation, in particular the exchange of technology, knowledge and financial assistance and the provision of joint expertise, is necessary in order to establish effective tobacco control programmes, taking into account the culture of the community concerned, but also social, economic, political and legal factors. the protocol can contribute to public health and the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, as well as to tax avoidance and organised crime. for the above reasons, i have supported this recommendation.
written. ‒ the framework convention on tobacco control is the first global treaty in the field of health and a response to the global epidemic of tobacco dependence to tackle some of its causes, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative that exists in this area. the protocol to the convention needs to be ratified by 40 parties in order to enter into force, and the eu would make a significant contribution to its rapid entry into force and implementation by ratifying that protocol at this time. the protocol to the convention is the main global initiative in this area. the protocol contains a complex set of measures, rules and policies in the area of combating illicit trade in tobacco products. the objective of this regulation is to ensure the safety of the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment by establishing a global traceability and tracing system. other provisions to ensure oversight include licensing, record keeping and regulation of online sales, duty-free sales and international transit. the protocol also contains provisions on offences, liability and payment in the event of confiscation, as well as on the treatment of confiscated products. it also seeks to enhance international cooperation, including mutual administrative assistance in customs matters. i support the ratification of the protocol because i believe it will contribute to public health and the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, tax evasion and organised crime.
written. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products is a criminal activity which, in addition to posing a serious threat to public health, violates tobacco control policies and causes large losses of revenue for the eu due to unpaid taxes and customs duties. the protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control is a major global initiative representing a wide range of measures, rules and policies to combat illicit trade in tobacco products. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in all member states. the protocol also lays down provisions on offences, liability and penalties in the case of confiscation, as well as the treatment of confiscated products. i support the recommendation of mr seinfeld, which aims to contribute to public health and the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, tax evasion and organised crime.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the first global health treaty is the world health organization framework convention on tobacco control (fctc). the convention is seen as a response to the global epidemic of tobacco dependence to tackle some of its causes, but also the illicit trade in tobacco products. the illegal trade in tobacco products is a criminal activity, as it undermines tobacco control policies and measures. it also causes a large loss of revenue for the eu due to unpaid customs revenues and taxes, estimated at more than eur 10 billion per year. the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products is the only multilateral regulatory initiative and aims to make the tobacco supply chain secure. the commission has also provided the european union with a number of recommendations for the implementation of the eu's common fisheries policy. today, the eu tobacco market is dominated by cheap cigars of unknown brands, purchased in non-eu countries and imported into the eu without paying customs duties and taxes. also, €90 billion is the annual fiscal revenue of the member states, meaning that about one in ten cigarettes is sold illegally. in view of the above, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention was adopted in response to the growing epidemic of tobacco dependence and as a tool to tackle some of its causes, including the illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products is the only multilateral regulatory initiative currently in existence in this area. the european union, together with its member states, would contribute to the entry into force and implementation of the protocol by ratifying it. i support the ratification of the protocol because i believe it will contribute to public health, since the illicit trade in tobacco products is a criminal activity which as such constitutes a threat. it will also prevent the european union from losing huge amounts of revenue through tax evasion and improve international cooperation in customs matters.
written. ‒ i supported the ratification of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the who framework convention on tobacco control as i believe it will contribute to public health and the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, tax avoidance and organised crime. the illicit trade in tobacco products, and in particular the smuggling of cigarettes, poses a serious threat to public health by increasing the availability of often cheaper tobacco products. the protocol contains a complex set of measures, rules and policies in the area of combating illicit trade in tobacco products, and i therefore believe that effective rules with global impact represent the best policy option to combat smuggling.
written. ‒ i support this agreement which aims to facilitate and liberalise trade in motor vehicles by establishing uniform technical regulations for the approval of vehicle equipment and parts and for the mutual recognition of such approvals. the automotive industry is a fundamental economic sector for the european union and international regulatory cooperation could help promote a transparent, efficient, competitive economic environment, as well as developing and strengthening the highest level of health and safety protection.
written. ‒ 32 - i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the third review of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions, as this gives consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i believe that the european automotive industry must strengthen its competitiveness and maintain its primacy of global technological leadership, given that it is still the eu's core economic sector. in this context, i consider it essential to remove unnecessary barriers to trade and regulatory cooperation in order to strengthen a diversified and balanced industrial base and therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ with global markets becoming more interconnected and industrial production growing, there is a growing need to eliminate unnecessary barriers to trade and cooperate on regulatory issues. regulatory issues are of fundamental importance for strengthening and maintaining the competitiveness of the branched industry in the european union. the automotive industry and the activities that facilitate its functioning account for 4% of the total gdp of the union. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: the european union is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles. at international level, the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe develops harmonised requirements intended to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles. the requirements are aimed at providing greater safety and environmental protection. by decision of the council, the union has undertaken to revise the treaty on technical regulations, which was established in 1958, and the revision was agreed at the 2010 meeting. i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision, as the application of the uniform technical regulations makes it possible to reduce production and development costs while avoiding duplication in administrative procedures.
written. ‒ given the increasing interconnectedness of world markets (up to 40% of european industrial products are made from imported raw materials) and the fact that industrial production is increasingly taking place in global value chains, in order to preserve and strengthen a competitive and diversified european industrial base, it is crucial to remove unnecessary barriers to trade and cooperation on regulatory issues. this resolution is significant because the automotive industry and cooperative industries constitute a fundamental economic sector of the european union. the automotive sector employs 12 million people and accounts for 4% of the union's gdp. this sector is important both for the industrial enterprises at the beginning and at the end of the production chain. the european union is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles and the sector with the highest private investment in r&d. the automotive industry forms an integrated value chain in which almost all member states participate. in order to maintain the crucial position of the automotive industry, the european union must strengthen the competitiveness of its automotive industry and maintain its global technological leadership. the european union must support global technological harmonisation. uniform technical requirements such as the unece framework contribute to reducing the costs of development, production and certification and avoid duplication of administrative procedures.
written. ‒ i give my consent to the conclusion of the unece agreement. in view of the increasing interconnectedness of world markets (up to 40% of european industrial products are made from imported raw materials) and the fact that industrial production is increasingly taking place in global value chains, it is crucial to remove unnecessary barriers to trade and regulatory cooperation in order to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diversified european industrial base. the automotive industry and cooperative industries constitute a fundamental economic sector of the european union. the automotive sector employs 12 million people and accounts for 4% of the union's gdp. the sector is important both for industrial enterprises at the beginning of the production chain (e.g. steel production, chemicals) and those at the end of the production chain (e.g. ict sector, mobility services). the european union is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles and the sector with the highest private investment in r&d. the automotive industry forms an integrated value chain in which almost all member states participate. in addition, it creates a high added value along the whole chain and plays an important role in the euro area trade balance. in order to maintain the crucial position of the automotive industry, the european union must strengthen the competitiveness of its automotive industry and maintain its global technological leadership.
written. ‒ the unece agreement proposes the adoption of technical regulations for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts to be fitted or used in vehicles, as well as a condition for the mutual recognition of approvals granted under such regulations. i support the recommendation of mr lange as it proposes universal rules of production acceptable to the union market as well as the international market, thus ensuring equal health and safety standards. given that 40% of european products are manufactured from imported parts, the removal of unnecessary barriers between member states is necessary to keep europe competitive and to have a diversified industrial base in europe.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the automotive and cooperative industries are the main economic sectors of the european union. it's the sector with the most private investment in research and development. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. the same sector is important for industrial enterprises throughout the production chain (spare parts services, mobility, steel and chemicals production, etc.). i believe that such uniform technical requirements contribute to reducing the costs of production and development and certification. in this connection, i believe that the european union should support technological harmonisation. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. i therefore believe that the european union should strengthen the competitiveness of the automotive industry and thereby maintain global technological leadership and thus preserve the crucial importance of the automotive industry. in view of the above, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the automotive industry and all related ancillary industries are a central economic sector of the european union. the automotive sector provides jobs for over 12 million union citizens and contributes up to 4% of the european union's gdp. the european union is among the leading manufacturers of motor vehicles and the sector is the largest private investor in r&d. the automotive industry represents a well-integrated value system involving almost all member states of the european union. in order to maintain the automotive industry's essential position in the european economy, the european union must strengthen the competitiveness of the european automotive industry and preserve its technological dominance in the world. global regulatory cooperation within the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) should serve as an example and be strengthened by bilateral agreements. i support this report because i believe that the removal of unnecessary barriers to trade and cooperation is crucial to maintaining and strengthening a competitive and diverse european industry. i believe that international regulatory cooperation has the potential to enhance and promote greater transparency, greater efficiency and a more competitive economic environment, while at the same time developing and ensuring the highest standards of health and safety protection.
‒ the european union must strengthen the competitiveness of this industry and maintain global technological leadership in order to maintain the crucial importance of its position. the automotive industry plays an important role in the euro area trade balance and forms an integrated value chain involving almost all member states. the european automotive industry must be prepared to adapt to the increasingly rapid changes in the world market and must therefore be supported by european legislation that will allow it unhindered access to overseas markets that are crucial for the survival and development of the european automotive industry. regulatory coherence and transparency are necessary for the development and implementation of effective, cost-effective and more harmonised regulations and i have therefore supported the single technical regulations for wheeled vehicles.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of colombia and the republic of peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, as this gives its consent to the conclusion of the additional protocol. the process is technical in nature, i.e. the commission and the council take the necessary legal steps to enable croatia to participate in the agreement, which naturally follows its accession to the eu. the agreement allows for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and industrial products and contains a number of other measures and technical adjustments which are necessary in that sector, and i therefore support this recommendation.
done at brussels, on 26 june 2012, the agreement on trade between the union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of peru and colombia, of the other part. the provisions signed between the european union and peru have been applied since march 2013, while the provisions signed with colombia have only been applied since august 2013. on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with peru and colombia with a view to concluding an additional protocol supplementing the agreement on trade between the union and its member states and the said parties for the purpose of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the agreement has enabled the liberalisation of trade in industrial and agricultural products and services, while also containing clear provisions on sanitary and phytosanitary measures, the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade and intellectual property. i supported the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of colombia and the republic of peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
written. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, should also take into account the accession of croatia to the european union. the council decision, to which the european parliament was invited to give its consent, includes a commitment by croatia to fulfil its obligations in the areas of public procurement, commercial services, the establishment of electronic commerce, rules of origin of products and to take care of the implementation of the obligations of the agreement in the croatian language. i supported the approval of the agreement with croatia, because this trade agreement is a natural consequence of eu accession. this is an agreement that aims to advance the process of economic and social transition, promote regional cooperation and economic integration of the country, the global economy, and extends to the liberalization of bilateral trade in goods, services and capital. the agreement provides for the establishment of a specialised unit for the protection of the environment in the republic of croatia. the agreement also establishes a regular political dialogue on issues of common interest at bilateral and regional level. in this sense, it regulates the relations of the republic of croatia as a member state of the european union with colombia and peru, which represents an opportunity to establish more effective partnerships and more profitable trade links with this part of the world, which is significant for many croatian companies.
written. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of colombia and the republic of peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and certain of its provisions have applied, in accordance with article 330 thereof, between the european union and peru as from 1 march 2013 and between the european union and colombia as from 1 august 2013. on 11 december 2012, the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of an additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of colombia and the republic of peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union ('the protocol').
written. ‒ the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the additional protocol on the accession of croatia to the eu to the trade agreement, so it is necessary to specify the legal steps to make croatia's participation possible. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. endorsed the recommendation of mr santiago fisas ayxelà on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. the accession of croatia to the eu naturally leads to its participation in the trade agreement. the same agreement contains provisions on competition, intellectual property and public procurement, technical barriers to trade, provisions on the origin of goods and sanitary and phytosanitary measures. the same agreement between the european union and its member states and the republic of colombia and the republic of peru was signed in brussels in 2012 and some of its provisions have been applied since 2013. it is therefore necessary for the commission and the council to take certain necessary legal steps to make possible the participation of croatia in the trade agreement. in view of the above, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of colombia and the republic of peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. this agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. the agreement also contains provisions on the division of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. the accession of croatia to the european union has required the adoption by the council of a protocol adjusting the commitments entered into by the union and its member states towards the other party prior to its accession, and it is necessary to include croatia in the obligations resulting from the agreement. i support the proposal for a council decision because i consider that croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the european union.
written. ‒ croatia's participation in the trade agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia and the republic of peru follows naturally from croatia's accession to the european union. this agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. since this agreement contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement, i consider that parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of the additional protocol on the participation of croatia in the agreement on trade between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of colombia and the republic of peru, of the other part.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction and applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on matrimonial property regimes, including in matters relating to matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships, as this gives my consent to the said draft council decision. i support the new proposals for acts submitted by the commission and based on the enhanced cooperation procedure. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the application of this regulation. accordingly, i consider that the conditions of that procedure are met in this particular case and therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ enhanced cooperation between member states in this area must be a last resort, applied when the union as a whole cannot achieve the objectives of such cooperation within a reasonable time, and involve at least nine member states. it shall also comply with the treaties and union law and respect the competences, rights and obligations of those member states which do not participate in it. as these conditions are met and the acts adopted do not prejudice the rights of member states not participating in enhanced cooperation or affect the internal market, i have supported this report.
written. ‒ it is a fact that citizens who are in an international marriage face various practical problems of a property-legal nature. different countries have different legal regulations governing the property rights of international couples. the spouses may have different nationalities, live in countries of which they are not nationals, have assets in different member states and, following a death, may find themselves in a legal dilemma over the relevant property system. the commission should be able to request the competent authorities of the member states to provide the necessary information to enable it to assess the compatibility of the measures adopted by the member states in the field of matrimonial property regimes with the provisions of this regulation. in particular, i would like to highlight the possibility for international couples to choose the law applicable to their property and to allow different civil proceedings to be heard by the same court, thus avoiding parallel proceedings and conflicting court decisions. however, i am concerned about the language used in the commission's proposal to equate registered partnerships with marriage, because it is not and cannot be the same. the commission is thus again entering the competence of the member states and is trying to redefine the institution of the family based on marriage between a man and a woman, which is unacceptable to me and therefore i could not support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the application of enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction and applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters relating to the property regimes of international couples, including matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships, was decided after the negotiations between all member states on the original commission proposals of 2011 were blocked. enhanced cooperation must satisfy certain conditions: it must be a last resort, applied when the union as a whole cannot achieve the objectives of such cooperation within a reasonable period, and it must involve at least nine member states; it must comply with the treaties and union law and respect the competences, rights and obligations of those member states which do not participate in it; it must promote the objectives of the union, protect its interests and strengthen its integration process; it must not undermine the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion, nor constitute an obstacle to or discrimination in trade between member states or distort competition between them. i agree with parliament's decision giving its consent to the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction and applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on matrimonial property regimes, including in matters relating to matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships.
written. ‒ enhanced cooperation concerns the property rights of international couples and this proposal is clearly in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of its citizens. in early 2016, the commission submitted new proposals for acts, based on the content of the agreement previously reached with the member states, under the enhanced cooperation procedure. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the application of the rules on the property regime of international couples, including the matrimonial property regime and the property regime of registered partnerships, in order to facilitate the exchange of information between the member states. i supported the recommendation of mr cavada as enhanced cooperation meets the conditions set by the commission and the proposed acts do not harm member states not participating in enhanced cooperation.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation for enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction and applicable law as well as the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of a property nature for international couples, including matrimonial property regimes and other property consequences. such a decision on enhanced cooperation appeared to be a last resort and an ideal solution, while at the same time being in the interest of the citizens of the union and clearly in line with the objectives of the union. the decision also satisfies all the conditions, i.e. enhanced cooperation is proposed, as the union as a whole cannot achieve the objectives of such cooperation within a reasonable time and such a solution does not harm the internal market or economic, territorial and social cohesion. furthermore, i consider that this decision respects the rights, obligations and competences of all member states not participating in it and is in accordance with the treaties and union law. finally, the decision does not create any obstacles or discriminate against trade between member states or distort competition between them.
‒ legislative acts relating to family law matters shall be adopted by the council, acting unanimously after consulting the european parliament. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, including the processing of personal data by the commission. enhanced cooperation has emerged as the ideal solution in the area of jurisdiction and applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters relating to the property regimes of international couples, including matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships. enhanced cooperation must also meet certain conditions, such as: being used only as a last resort when the union as a whole cannot achieve the objectives of cooperation within a reasonable period; involving at least nine member states; being compatible with the treaties and union law; promoting the objectives of the union; not being detrimental to the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion; and not being an obstacle to or discriminatory in relation to trade between member states or distorting competition between them. i support the adoption of this recommendation as i consider that all the necessary conditions are met in this case. this enhanced cooperation on matters relating to the property rights of international couples is clearly in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of its citizens.
written. ‒ i did not support the european parliament's position on the authorisation of enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction and applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property regimes of international couples, including in matters relating to matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships, as i believe that this issue should be a matter for the competence of each member state. i consider that any obligations imposed on member states by adopting decisions based on this position would constitute a breach of the principle of proportionality enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
written. ‒ i support this decision because it relates to the world health organisation's fctc protocol, which joins the eu in global efforts to combat smuggling of tobacco products. the damage from tobacco smuggling is twofold, as it negatively affects public health and public budgets.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, as regards its provisions on obligations related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences, as this gives consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i believe it is crucial to establish a global monitoring system and to enhance international, national and regional cooperation, as well as information exchange and technical cooperation. it is certainly necessary to define the provisions concerning the infringement, liability and payment in the context of attachment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
written. ‒ the world health organisation protocol aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. this issue is addressed by a series of measures and it is therefore necessary that the european union ratifies this protocol as a matter of urgency. the parties shall cooperate to ensure that the implementation of this protocol is coordinated with the implementation of the other relevant international instruments and instruments. the protocol also establishes an effective licensing system for supply chain supervision and provisions on a tracking and tracing system and on the prevention of money laundering. the protocol requires all states parties to act transparently and to fulfil their monitoring and surveillance obligations in all their cooperation with the tobacco industry. the protocol seeks to encourage and enhance international cooperation, regulatory exchange of information, technical cooperation and cooperation of law enforcement authorities, and mutual legal and administrative assistance. this protocol is a key contribution to international efforts to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products and thus to curb tax and customs evasion, which is why i have supported this recommendation for a draft council decision.
written. ‒ i have supported the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of the european parliament recommending support for the decision on the conclusion of the agreement to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products with the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, as regards those provisions of the protocol which are covered by the content of part three, title v of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the protocol itself proposes a set of measures relating to the tobacco supply chain to be implemented by the governments of the member states. this requires the establishment of a global tracking and tracing system and a global information exchange hub will be set up for this purpose. the establishment of national and regional tracking and tracing systems will be managed in this way. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the measures taken by the member states to address the problem of illicit tobacco supply chains. those provisions cover licensing, record-keeping requirements and the regulation of online sales, duty-free sales and international transit. the protocol also establishes provisions on offences, liability and payment in the event of seizure, as well as the treatment of seized products, as the existence of illicit trade in tobacco products is an evident problem. in view of the above, i have supported this recommendation with the aim of eliminating the illicit trade in tobacco products as effectively as possible.
‒ the who framework convention on tobacco control is the world's first health treaty. it was designed in response to the global epidemic of tobacco dependence to tackle some of its causes, including the illicit trade in tobacco products. it entered into force on 27 february 2005 and has so far been acceded to by 180 parties. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products adopted by the conference of the parties on 12 november 2012 in seoul is based on article 15 of the fctc. the protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative that exists in this area. the illicit trade in tobacco products, and in particular the smuggling of cigarettes, is a criminal activity that poses a serious threat to public health. it undermines tobacco control policies and increases the availability of often cheaper tobacco products. in addition, it causes huge revenue losses for the eu due to unpaid taxes and customs duties. the loss of revenue for the eu and its member states is estimated at more than eur 10 billion per year. that is why i welcome the decision of the european parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
‒ the protocol to the who framework convention shows the link between the interests of the tobacco industry and public health interests and sets out certain obligations relating to the tobacco industry. the protocol requires all states parties to act transparently in all their cooperation with the tobacco industry. the commission has also identified a number of other measures that could be considered as necessary to address the problem of illicit supply chains of tobacco products. i supported the recommendation of ms anderson, as it calls on all tobacco industry players to take effective action in accordance with the law to tackle the problem of illicit trade in tobacco products.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the union and the member states, except sweden, have concluded legally binding and enforceable agreements with the world's four largest tobacco producers to tackle counterfeiting and cigarette smuggling. i consider the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the who framework convention on tobacco control to be a major and crucial contribution to the international effort to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products. i also think it is very important to combat customs and tax evasion in this way. the four largest tobacco producers in the world are jointly required to pay more than eur 2 billion to the union and the member states party to those agreements to provide assistance and support for counterfeiting and smuggling instruments and measures. the protocol has been ratified by 16 countries to date, including five member states, and is due to enter into force on the 20th day following the deposit of the 40th instrument of ratification, acceptance or accession with the depositary. in the light of the above, i support this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products.
written. ‒ the purpose of the protocol is to combat illicit trade in tobacco products. any practice or conduct associated with the production, receipt, distribution, possession, sale, purchase that is prohibited by law is considered to be illicit trade. the tobacco industry has a responsibility to effectively address the illicit trade in tobacco products and to mitigate the irreconcilable conflict between its interests and those of public health. the protocol provides for the supervision of the tobacco chain to be carried out by a series of measures. it also provides for a global monitoring regime to enable the exchange of information at the level of the world health organisation, leading to the establishment of a national and regional monitoring system. i support the adoption of this protocol because i consider that it encourages and strengthens international cooperation, encourages the exchange of information, technical and police cooperation and mutual legal and administrative assistance.
written. ‒ i believe that the european union should ratify the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco, which aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the protocol should contain provisions covering licensing, record-keeping requirements and the regulation of online sales, duty-free sales and international transit. i believe that a series of measures relating to the tobacco supply chain will address the issue of illicit trade in tobacco and that the tobacco industry is ready to act to address this issue.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments as regards certain dates (com ((2016) 0056 c8-0026/2016 2016/0033 ((cod))), given the lack of the necessary data collection infrastructure that should become operational, and all the more given that the directive has to be transposed by member states by 3 july 2016 and the measures have to apply from 3 january 2017. in this regard, in order to ensure legal certainty and avoid market distortions, it is necessary to urgently postpone the deadlines for the application of the overall framework including delegated and implementing acts and to postpone the deadlines for repealing directive 2004/39/ec by 12 months until 3 january 2018.
written. ‒ regulation 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu set out requirements related to the authorisation and operation of investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the financial instruments and the financial instruments referred to in article 2 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. the european securities and markets authority and the national competent authorities are not able to ensure that the necessary collection infrastructure is in place by the defined date. i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments as regards certain dates. i believe that greater legal certainty and the avoidance of market distortions must be ensured and that the only way to achieve this is to take the appropriate measures to allow for an extension of the deadline for the start of the application of the whole system.
written. ‒ the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the markets in financial instruments regulation (mifir) were adopted in the light of the financial crisis. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the application of this regulation. the new framework strengthens and replaces the existing framework of mifid (markets in financial instruments directive), which i certainly support. the exceptionally high level of complexity of the mifid ii package and the need for a large number of implementing measures logically led to the need to extend the start of application. in this regard, and in order to ensure legal certainty and avoid possible market distortions, urgent measures are necessary to adjust the date of application of mifid ii. the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the markets in financial instruments directive as regards certain dates also sets out certain exceptions in the application of the directive and a proposal to extend the deadline for transposition into national law. i support these proposals, as well as the proposed amendments to the directive, and i have therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to amend directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments with regard to certain dates. the lack of data collection infrastructure has consequences for the entire scope of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu. in the absence of data, it will not be possible to clearly distinguish between the financial instruments covered by the scope of the new framework. in addition, it will not be possible to adapt the pre- and post-trade transparency rules necessary to determine which instruments are liquid and when exemptions or deferred publication should be granted. in order to collect data efficiently and in a harmonised manner, new data collection infrastructure is being developed. for that purpose, the european securities and markets authority (esma) and national competent authorities are required to establish a financial instruments reference data system (firds). it will cover a wide range of financial instruments falling within the scope of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and will link data flows between esma, national competent authorities and trading venues across the eu. in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid possible market distortions, it is necessary and justified to take urgent measures to extend the deadline for the application of the overall framework, including all delegated and implementing acts.
‒ directive 2014/65/eu is one of the most important pieces of financial legislation adopted in the light of the financial crisis, introducing clearer rules on securities markets and rules for investment firms. in order to improve transparency, the regime of position limits in commodity derivatives, support for sound pricing and prevention of market abuse is harmonised. the rules on high-frequency trading are also introduced and market surveillance is improved. the directive requires markets and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with information on financial instruments that uniquely describes the characteristics of each financial instrument. for that purpose, the european supervisory authority (esma) and the national competent authorities are required to establish a system of reference data on financial instruments. the measures transposing that directive into national law of the member states are to apply from 3 january 2017. however, due to the volume and complexity of data to be collected and processed, esma realised at the end of last year that the industry would not be able to complete the necessary systems for the new reporting rules and proposed changes to the deadlines. i supported the report of the representative of ferber to ensure legal certainty and to avoid market distortion. i would stress that the proposed measures are aimed at protecting citizens investing in securities by introducing strict requirements regarding organisation and business conduct.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ directive 2014/65/eu lays down requirements relating to the operation and authorisation of investment firms, data reporting services providers and regulated markets. the harmonisation of administrative sanctions improves the supervision of financial markets and introduces rules on high-frequency trading. the new framework builds on existing rules that also strengthen investor protection by introducing strict requirements in terms of organisation and business conduct. the consequences of the lack of data collection infrastructure are felt throughout the scope of the regulation and the directive. the commission should be able to adopt implementing acts laying down the rules on the pre- and post-trade transparency of the securities settlement systems, including the rules on the pre- and post-trade transparency of the securities settlement systems, and the rules on the pre- and post-trade transparency of the securities settlement systems. the commission notes that the new framework does not provide for a clear distinction between financial instruments and financial instruments that are not covered by the new framework. in view of the above, i support this report on the amendment of directive 2014/65/eu.
written. ‒ in the light of the financial crisis, directive 2014/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council, as well as regulation (eu) no 600/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, are considered to be the most important pieces of financial legislation relating to securities markets, investment firms and trading venues. this report deals with the proposal to amend directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments with regard to certain dates. the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the national competent authorities are required to establish a financial instruments information system (firds). it will cover a wide range of financial instruments and link data flows between national authorities, esma and trading venues across the union. the new framework also develops new data collection infrastructure. the parliament considers that more time is needed to implement these decisions effectively, and therefore the amendments to the directive relate to an extension of the deadlines by one year, while the substance of the directive remains unchanged. the new rules should apply from 3 january 2017. i support the proposal to amend directive 2014/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as i consider that the new framework strengthens investor protection by introducing stricter requirements on organisation and business conduct.
written. ‒ i supported the amendment of the markets in financial instruments directive with regard to certain dates, as the purpose of this proposal is to extend the deadline for the start of application of both the technical implementation instruments faced by competent authorities and shareholders. the commission considers that the extension of the deadline of one year will allow the competent authorities to establish a new infrastructure, to ensure legal certainty and to avoid possible market distortions, and to take urgent measures to extend the deadline for the start of application of the overall framework, including all delegated and implementing acts.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on improving securities settlement in the eu and on central securities depositories as regards certain dates, given that as such, regulation (eu) no 909/2014 of the european parliament and of the council contains references to the date of application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) (com (2016) 0175) and that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii). the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the application of this regulation, in particular on the application of the provisions of the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and on the application of the provisions of the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and on the application of the provisions of the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and on the application of the provisions of the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies. i hope that the commission will seriously prepare the application of this document and above all that esma will put in place a high-quality system for the collection, use and reporting of the necessary financial information. i hope that this delay in terms of deadlines will be respected and that it will not lead to a 'weakening' of the legislative document.
written. ‒ a regulated market in financial instruments is based on mutual trust between all participants from investment firms, investors, issuers and other market intermediaries. therefore, one of the priorities is to prevent any form of market abuse. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. on the basis of the arguments presented, i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on improving securities settlement in the european union and on central securities depositories as regards certain dates.
written. ‒ the purpose of the draft proposal to amend the markets in financial instruments regulation is to extend the deadline for the start of application of both instruments that make up the mifid ii package, due to technical implementation challenges. i consider that esma, the national competent authorities and the stakeholders should be allowed to complete the operational implementation and it is therefore appropriate to postpone the date of application of the regulation by 12 months to 3 january 2018. i consider that the extension will allow a sufficient and reasonable period to set up the infrastructure for data collection, reporting and calculation of transparency thresholds. i note that the dates of application of the markets in financial instruments regulation and the markets in financial instruments directive should be taken into account and the market abuse regulation and the regulation on the improvement of securities settlement in the european union should be adapted accordingly. this report on the draft regulation also sets out the specific circumstances related to trading transparency and risk management, is well-conceived and was adopted by the competent committee almost unanimously. for all of the above, i have endorsed this report.
written. ‒ the european parliament, having regard to the proposal from the commission to the european parliament and the council and the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, adopted a report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on improving securities settlement in the european union and on central securities depositories as regards certain dates. i welcome the decision of the european parliament as mifid ii will increase the number of financial instruments covered by trading rules and ensure that trading takes place on regulated platforms. the rules on high-frequency trading will also be introduced. the transparency and supervision of financial markets, including derivatives markets, will be improved and the issue of commodity derivatives price volatility will be addressed.
‒ directive 2014/65/eu is one of the most important pieces of financial legislation adopted in the light of the financial crisis, introducing clearer rules on securities markets and rules for investment firms. in order to improve transparency, the regime of position limits in commodity derivatives, support for sound pricing and prevention of market abuse is harmonised. the rules on high-frequency trading are also introduced and market surveillance is improved. the directive requires markets and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with information on financial instruments that uniquely describes the characteristics of each financial instrument. for that purpose, the european supervisory authority (esma) and the national competent authorities are required to establish a system of reference data on financial instruments. the measures transposing this directive into national law of the member states are to apply from 3 january 2017. however, due to the volume and complexity of data to be collected and processed, esma realised at the end of last year that the industry would not be able to complete the necessary systems for the new reporting rules and proposed changes to the deadlines. i supported the report of the representative of ferber to ensure legal certainty and to avoid market distortion. i would stress that the proposed measures are aimed at protecting citizens investing in securities by introducing strict requirements regarding organisation and business conduct.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ in order to describe in a uniform manner the characteristics of each financial instrument to which directive 2014/65/eu applies, it is necessary that trading venues and systematic internalisers provide reference data on financial instruments to competent authorities. the information provided by the competent authority shall be used to identify the counterparty to the transaction. the volume and complexity of data that needs to be collected and processed to make the new framework operational, in particular when it comes to transparency calculations or transaction reporting, is the reason why trading venues, esma (european securities and markets authority) and national competent authorities have not enabled the necessary data infrastructure to be in place by 3 january 2017. the new framework, i.e. the new data collection infrastructure, will bring together a wide range of financial instruments covered by the scope of the regulation as well as data from national competent authorities, trading venues across the union and data from esma. the reporting of positions in commodity derivatives is not required to be based on the trading venue's own trading strategy. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ in the light of the financial crisis, directive 2014/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council, as well as regulation (eu) no 600/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, are considered to be the most important pieces of financial legislation relating to securities markets, investment firms and trading venues. however, given the complexity of the new framework and the need for a large number of delegated and implementing acts, the date of application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 has been postponed by 30 months from the date of entry into force. the commission has also concluded that the new framework will be more effective and more efficient than the existing framework, and that the new framework will be more effective and more effective than the existing framework. the commission considers that the best execution rules should be applied to all types of investment firms, including those that are not regulated by the relevant union law. parliament considers that it would be appropriate to postpone the date of application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 by 12 months, to 3 january 2018. i support the proposal to amend regulation (eu) no 600/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on markets in financial instruments as i consider that the new framework strengthens investor protection by introducing stricter requirements on organisation and business conduct.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal to amend the markets in financial instruments regulation to lay down requirements relating to the authorisation and operation of investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers. that regulation is, alongside directive 2014/65/eu, the most important piece of financial legislation adopted in the light of the financial crisis in relation to securities markets, investment firms and trading venues. in order to collect data in a new and efficient manner, the european securities and markets authority (esma) and national competent authorities are required to establish a system of reference data on financial instruments. the infrastructure set-up process consists of five steps: business requirements, specifications, development, testing and commissioning. esma estimates that those steps should be completed by january 2018, provided that legal certainty is established with regard to the final requirements under the regulatory technical requirements by june 2016 at the latest.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a decision on the proposed appointment of mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors because i consider that mr šadžius has the necessary knowledge and professional experience to perform the said function. the work in the ministry of finance, health, and social welfare and labour of the republic of lithuania indicates that mr šadžius has had opportunities to acquire the necessary skills and competences, especially taking into account the position of minister of finance that he has held since december 2012. i consider that mr šadžius will act conscientiously and responsibly as a member of the said tribunal and therefore i support his appointment.
written. ‒ the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a period of six years. in accordance with article 286 tfeu, the council, after consulting parliament, is to adopt the list of members drawn up in accordance with the proposals made by each member state. i have supported the report on the proposed appointment of mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors, as i consider that he meets the criteria set out in his competence and experience.
written. ‒ rimantas šadžius has a wide professional experience in public finance, foreign policy and international law, which makes him an acceptable candidate for this appointment. i am convinced that mr šadžius' experience in the ministry of finance of the republic of lithuania, first as deputy minister and then as minister, is invaluable for his appointment, given that the court of auditors carries out the audit of eu revenue and expenditure and checks whether eu funds are used correctly and with the expected effect. i believe that his membership will improve the quality of auditing of the overall accounting records of revenue or expenditure of the european union or its bodies, given that šadžius himself has contributed to the reform of accounting and financial reporting in the lithuanian public sector. as an independent external auditor of the eu, i consider that rimantas, as a member of the court of auditors, will protect the interests of eu taxpayers and thus also the interests of taxpayers of the republic of croatia. in view of his experience so far, i believe that the appointment of mr rimantas, as well as other candidates with similar qualifications, contributes to a better functioning of the eu audit system as a whole and i supported his appointment as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ having regard to the evaluation by parliament's committee on budgetary control of the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and to the committee on budgetary control's favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors, i support the appointment of mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ rimantas šadžius, current minister of finance of the republic of lithuania, has been nominated as a member of the court of auditors whose role is to contribute to better management of the european union's finances and to verify the correctness of the collection and use of funds. based on his professional experience as minister of finance and responsibilities as deputy minister of social welfare and labour, rimantas šadžius' professional activities are closely linked to public finances. i therefore support the report of mr staes and i agree with the commission's proposal to appoint mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report in view of the fact that the qualifications of the proposed candidate have been assessed by the competent committee of parliament, in particular with regard to the conditions set out in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the same candidate was also heard at a meeting of the committee on budgetary control at the court of auditors on 23 may 2016.
written. ‒ parliament's committee on budgetary control, having assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and after having held a hearing of the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors, has given a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors. i support the draft decision on the proposed appointment as i consider that the parliamentary committee is competent to give a meaningful opinion on the qualifications of the candidate.
written. ‒ i supported the appointment of mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors as i believe that mr šadžius, given his professional experience in public finance, will be guided by the principle of independence which is fundamental in the performance of daily audit duties and in the taking of strategic decisions. the court of auditors has an important role to play in the process of promoting a culture of good financial management, and i believe that the members of the court of auditors should be qualified experts who can enhance the added value of auditing the performance of the business. the european court of auditors should provide the european parliament with audit reports on topics of importance to parliament which are timely and relevant. to that end, the auditor must thoroughly review the specific business processes, select comparable best practices and identify what could be done best.
written. ‒ i support this report on policy coherence in the interest of development. i believe that despite the difficulties in implementing development policy, the eu should make an additional effort to ensure more synergies between european union policies.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development, and i believe that the european parliament should have a key role in promoting this important topic. a clear alignment between development policies and sustainable development programmes is needed. the sustainable development goals should be integrated into the decision-making process at internal and external levels. european development policy needs to have clear objectives in order to really achieve and progress as a result of european aid. there are a number of instruments in this regard that should be used more effectively, such as better quality impact assessments. more effort is needed to coordinate development policies not only by the european institutions but also by the member states, i.e. the heads of government and heads of state. development policy must be effective and this is not possible without the coordination of all policies from trade to agriculture. it is important to pay attention to trade policy and financial investment, food security, climate change, investments in health, humanitarian aid and other aspects of eu action.
written. ‒ the council conclusions on the fifth biennial report of the european commission, adopted in october 2015, stressed that policy coherence in the interest of development would contribute to the wider eu objective on this topic. this report examines progress and identifies areas where improvements are needed in existing policy coherence mechanisms, but also seeks to stimulate debate on the future of this concept. policy coherence for development is a key element in achieving and delivering the new sustainable development agenda and requires a proactive approach based on consensus building. the concept of policy coherence for development is primarily a european concept, but it is seeking to find a common universal approach in order to make progress at global level in integrating this concept. the rapporteur welcomes the new organisation of the juncker commission and the establishment of a group of commissioners dealing with external relations. the eu needs to improve its results-oriented approach, define quality objectives and set clearer indicators of policy coherence in the interest of development. the european parliament is an important actor and should play an important role in promoting development policies, which is why i supported this report.
written. - 663 million people don't have access to clean water, and that's one in ten people, twice the population of the united states. one third of schools lack access to safe drinking water and adequate sanitation. there are more cell phone users in the world than people who have access to a toilet. 795 million people in the world are undernourished, that's one in nine people. did you know that if women farmers had equal access to resources as men do, the number of hungry people could be reduced by 150 million? development policies are among the most important policies of the european union. the question of development is not a question of luxury, but of ensuring basic living conditions and basic human rights. eradicate malnutrition and hunger, provide access to safe drinking water, ensure adequate sanitation, health care, education... these are basic human rights. we need to invest in development policies, and aligning development policies will certainly contribute to their effectiveness. in addition to providing basic necessities, it is important to encourage poor producers and trade in developing countries, and the security aspect is also important. the integration and coordination of development policies and the linking of development aid with humanitarian aid will contribute to the objectives we all seek, which is why i supported this resolution, which provides for mechanisms for policy coordination in the interests of development.
written. ‒ the idea of coherence for development was first mentioned in the union's development policy in 2006. since then, it has become an important tool in the union's policy-making, and is mentioned in the lisbon treaty. the objective of policy coherence for development is to prevent inconsistencies arising from european policies in order to avoid negative consequences for developing countries. i welcome the establishment of a group of commissioners active in the field of external relations and request that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy regularly report to the committee on development on the work of that group. i recall the importance of considering the impact of fisheries agreements on food security in developing countries and call on the eu to contribute to the prevention of land grabbing by supporting developing countries in their implementation of the un voluntary guidelines on responsible land, fisheries and forestry management at the national level. i regret the fact that, although impact assessments are an important instrument for achieving policy coherence in the interest of development, development impact assessments remain few in number and do not adequately take into account the potential impact on developing countries. i hope that the better regulation package and its guidelines will correct this problem by taking development and human rights into account.
written. ‒ development policy priority areas include migration and security, trade and finance, food security, health and climate change. in addition to the priority areas, the report by mr preda stresses the importance of basing eu policies on respect for human rights, the rule of law and the fight against poverty, all in order to achieve the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. we call in particular for the decision-making on development policies to be aligned with the new eu global strategy to be presented by high commissioner mogherini and with the revision process of the multiannual financial framework. i supported the report by mr preda because the refugee crisis and the destabilisation of the european union's neighbourhood threaten the foundations of the union - solidarity and the schengen system. it is in the field of external action that the greatest attention should be paid to policy coherence in the interest of development, and stabilising the situation in the european union's neighbourhood should be at the top of our priorities.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that the european union should take the lead and take the lead in promoting policy coherence in the interest of development. in particular, policy coherence for development should be an important element in the eu's contribution to the wider goal of policy coherence for sustainable development, as stated in the council conclusions on the european commission's fifth biennial report. a crucial element of this report, unfortunately, is the fact that 1.5 billion people still live in poverty and are denied living standards, health and education. i believe that the eu has a direct obligation and responsibility in its relations with partner countries. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which establishes a universal and single set of development goals applicable to all, represents a major and new challenge for achieving policy coherence in the interest of development.
written. ‒ policy coherence in the interest of development is a key element for achieving and delivering the new sustainable development agenda. the commission should be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission in order to ensure that the union's policies are consistent with the objectives of the union's development policy. although policy coherence for development is supported by the united nations millennium declaration and the lisbon treaty, its concrete implementation has made poor progress. parliament called for a union-wide debate on policy coherence for development within the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its new 17 universal and indivisible sustainable development goals for better understanding. the sustainable development goals (sdgs) concern both developed and developing countries and should be integrated into the decision-making process of the european union at both internal and external levels. i support this report and the guidelines it sets out, as i believe that policy coherence in the interest of development should contribute to the establishment of the rule of law and independent institutions. i also believe it will help to address the challenges of good governance in developing countries.
the european union's 2015 report on policy coherence for development seeks to improve existing mechanisms for achieving policy coherence for development and to stimulate debate on the future of the concept at european level. the european union has repeatedly expressed its political commitment to achieving policy coherence in the interest of development, but has still not found a way to put this into practice. i consider policy coherence to be one of the political and economic priorities of the european union and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development to be an opportunity for poverty eradication and sustainable development. while i agree with most of the proposals in this report, i voted in abstention because i believe that the proposed approach will create additional regulatory measures and obstacles for eu citizens and businesses.
written. ‒ i support this report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition. i believe that the new covenant should be supported, despite its shortcomings. i believe that agricultural investment policies must be linked and support the development of small-scale local economies, and that the new alliance projects must be in line with the fao's voluntary guidelines on the responsible management of land tenure, fisheries and forests.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the new alliance for food security (2015/2277 ((ini)) as, in addition to all the positive assumptions contained in the new alliance for food security, this document also identifies problems that should be addressed. in particular, the new alliance for food security in africa, launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a major public-private partnership to boost private investment in agriculture to improve food and nutrition in sub-saharan africa, aims to support poverty reduction efforts, provide food security, assist local and family farms and should become a true instrument of sustainable development and an instrument for providing assistance to sub-saharan africa. the problem is that large multinational companies operating under the new alliance favour large-scale contract farming, which puts small producers in a subordinate position. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in breach of the rules on state aid. small producers need to be put in a better position.
‒ the new alliance for food security in africa was launched in 2012 as a major public-private partnership to boost private investment in agriculture to improve food security in sub-saharan africa. instead of supporting the new alliance's modern agricultural model, based on large-scale industrial agriculture, more should be invested in family farms. family farmers and smallholders are the main investors in african agriculture and provide over 60% of employment in africa. the eu must play a key role in transforming the new alliance into a real instrument, and this requires addressing governance and property rights, promoting sustainable family farming, access to land and security of tenure. the eu should not use oda to support transnational corporations that act as monopolies or cartels and thus contribute to undermining the local private sector. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i supported this report because it would benefit family farmers the most and ensure that consumers have access to quality food at affordable prices.
the new alliance for food security in africa (nafsn) was launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a public-private partnership (ppp) aimed at attracting private investment in agriculture to improve food and nutrition security in sub-saharan africa. the european union's experience in successfully implementing a common agricultural policy based on small farms is a valuable knowledge and experience to be shared with developing countries to ensure that they too have sufficient supply of quality food for their populations. i believe that agricultural investment policies in africa should be targeted to support the development of the local economy, including small producers and family farms. i welcome the commitment to promote inclusive growth based on agriculture and supporting smallholder farming and helping to reduce poverty, hunger and malnutrition. in addition, it is important to call on african governments to invest in local food systems to improve rural economies, ensure decent jobs, equitable social protection networks and labour rights, and improve conditions for democratic control of access to resources. i supported this resolution because helping that part of the world depends not only on money and donations but also on caring for their self-sustaining, inclusive and sustainable economic growth that starts in the agricultural sector.
‒ the new alliance for food security in africa aims to improve food security by helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa to escape poverty by 2020. given that over the past 30 years in africa, investment in smallholder farming has been neglected and low-income countries have become significantly more dependent on food imports, making them vulnerable to price fluctuations in international markets, i call on governments and donors to suspend or review all policies, projects and advisory activities that directly encourage and facilitate the competition for arable land through highly unfair projects and investments or that indirectly encourage increased pressure on land and natural resources and that can cause serious human rights violations, and i call for support to be provided for policies that protect the needs of smallholder farmers, in particular women, and promote sustainable land use. i also encourage eu member states to seek to transform the new alliance into an instrument of sustainable development and an instrument to support family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa, and recall that family farmers and smallholders produce approximately 80% of the world's food and are responsible for more than 60% of employment in sub-saharan africa.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mep marie heubuch on the new alliance for food security in africa. in order to improve food and nutrition security in sub-saharan africa, private investment in agriculture needs to be increased. the new alliance, launched in 2012, includes the g8 members, the african union, the new partnership for africa's development (nepad) and the comprehensive african agricultural development programme (caadp). one in four people in sub-saharan africa is malnourished. as the world's leading humanitarian donor, the european union has an important role to play in transforming the new alliance into an effective mechanism for providing financial and operational assistance to local economies and family farmers in sub-saharan africa. effective implementation of international standards will help reduce poverty levels and increase food security in the region.
written. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa seeks to improve food security and nutrition so that 50 million people in sub-saharan africa can be lifted out of poverty by 2020. this proposal is of great importance as family farms and small farmers are the main investors in african agriculture. investment in small farms has been neglected, and this has increased dependence on food imports. i believe that we need to develop resilience to excessive food imports and encourage organic production and diversification of food at local level. i also think that the proposal is very important because it is predicted that by 2050 about 70% of the world's population will live in cities and it is intended to open up the possibility of better jobs in rural areas as well. in view of the future volatility of international markets and the need for all countries to avoid the risk of over-dependence on imports and to encourage investment in domestic production, i supported the proposal for a new alliance for food security.
written. ‒ with 50 million people in sub-saharan africa living in poverty, i believe that the new alliance can improve food security and help them. the parties have agreed on a framework for cooperation among states setting out commitments to facilitate private investment in the agricultural sector in africa. following the 2008 food crisis, there was a global recognition of the need to support small farmers producing food for domestic markets. in view of the above, i support this report on the new alliance for food security. also, in africa, over the past 30 years, investment in small farms has been neglected, and food imports by low-income countries have increased significantly. in developing countries, food security depends greatly on the sustainable use of natural resources. the commission has also identified a number of other areas where the union should be able to contribute to the development of the food sector. finally, given that it's predicted that 70 percent of the world's population will be living in cities by 2050, i think the food question will require a response at both the local and global levels.
written. ‒ the new alliance for food security in africa is conceived as a large-scale public-private partnership aimed at boosting private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. in drawing up the framework for cooperation, the states have hardly consulted smallholders, although they should be the ultimate beneficiaries of the new covenant. the european union and the member states have a key role to play in transforming the new alliance into a real instrument for supporting family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa in order to tackle poverty and food and nutrition insecurity. the main private participants in the new alliance are multinational companies that already benefit from a dominant market position and are often granted business, customs and tax benefits in host countries. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the european union should suspend its current support for the new alliance, as its ability to contribute to poverty reduction and food security is seriously called into question. the commission should also be able to provide support to the member states in the form of grants, loans and guarantees.
‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa was launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a major public-private partnership aimed at boosting private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. the alliance aims to involve private partners in investing in african agriculture and to establish a framework to facilitate private investment. however, it is questionable how much exceptionally large public-private partnerships such as the new alliance can contribute to poverty reduction and food security, as it is the poorest communities that are at risk of taking on the burden of social and environmental risks. i therefore believe that the european union and its member states should suspend their current support for the new alliance and instead invest in a sustainable model of agriculture to ensure that consumers have quality food at affordable prices, and i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the evaluation of international accounting standards and the activities of the international financial reporting standards foundation, the european financial reporting advisory group and the public interest oversight committee because i believe that without harmonisation there is neither a single nor a competitive market. the european union's framework for the regulation and supervision of financial services should be based on consistent and harmonised international standards in view of the development of the single market for capital and in order to make the european union a world market leader. it is also necessary to take into account the public interest in all companies listed on the stock exchange being treated equally and to ensure reliable information on the creditworthiness of companies.
written. ‒ ifrs standards change in line with dynamic changes in the environment such as uneven economic and financial developments, the volatility of financial markets and institutions. depending on the environment, standards are also updated or discontinued. the ias together with international auditing standards (isas) constitute a key component for the efficient functioning of the capital market and the internal market. the main purpose of the ifrs is to enhance accountability by working to reduce the information gap between firms and investors, to improve international comparability and the quality of financial data, and to introduce greater transparency. in order to facilitate the movement of global capital, a single global system of accounting standards is needed to harmonise the different standards. in the european union, long-term investors and various stakeholders have already raised the issue of the inconsistency of international accounting standards with the legal requirements set out in the accounting directive on several occasions. the most common discrepancies are in the principles of governance and prudence, which hamper global capital flows. the need arises to define and develop harmonised financial reporting standards and to ensure consistency and coherence. in view of all the above, i have endorsed this report.
written. ‒ international accounting standards have been introduced to increase the efficiency of the european capital market by increasing the transparency and comparability of financial statements. today, these standards are used by individuals and businesses in over a hundred countries to prepare their financial statements. the european commission has assessed how the application of the standard has fulfilled their task of creating a common accounting language. however, the report notes that there is still room for improvement in the way they are harmonized internationally, simplified, and made more understandable and consistent. i welcome the expressed desire to make further progress in standardising accounting rules and to address the shortcomings identified, and given the exceptional importance of standards in removing obstacles to new investment and in developing the single capital market in the union in general, i support this report. however, i would invite the commission to check whether the existing accounting standards allow for any tax fraud.
written. ‒ the purpose of international financial reporting standards is to enhance accountability by reducing the information gap between investors and firms, to protect investments and to introduce transparency by improving the international comparability and quality of financial data, and to enable investors and other market participants to make informed economic decisions and thereby influence the behaviour of participants in financial markets and contribute to the stability of those markets. the financial statements are of particular importance for the protection of shareholders, members and third parties and such types of undertakings do not provide guarantees to third parties in excess of the amount of their net assets. in the light of the above, it is appropriate to note that the accounting model of 'decision making utility' is not fully consistent with the accounting function of 'capital adequacy' as described in the case law of the court of justice of the european union and in the accounting directive, which leads to the conclusion that the conceptual basis of the accounting framework for international financial reporting standards does not cover the purpose of financial statements in eu law for which the same standard of accuracy and presentation of the specified figures applies, as set out in lord hill's reply e-016071/2015 of 25 february 2016, as a holistic assessment of the significance of individual figures and qualitative explanations is required to achieve the principles of accuracy and presentation of figures.
written. ‒ the report by mr stoloyan highlights the importance of accounting standards in the development of the single capital market in the member states, especially in the context of capital markets that will help further strengthen european influence in the world. the adoption of international financial reporting standards ensures their alignment with the interests of the european economy. i supported the report by mr stoloyan which welcomes the evaluation of international accounting standards carried out by the commission but also reminds the commission that it is necessary to present the legal changes needed to address the deficiencies and non-compliances identified by the evaluation.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the threat to economic and financial stability and the decline in public confidence in the social market economy model arise as a consequence of the distorted presentation of company accounting data. i support this report because international accounting standards and international auditing standards are one of the key components necessary for the effective functioning of the capital market and the internal market. it is also important to note that reducing the information gap between investors and firms and enabling investors, but also other market participants, to make informed economic decisions are among the aims and purposes of the international accounting standard. furthermore, a global system of accounting standards is essential for global capital movements. finally, i think this report is important because it also puts the emphasis on strengthening europe's position to ensure that the principles are embedded in the whole standard-setting process and in the recognition of standards.
written. ‒ international accounting standards are an important part of the eu framework for the regulation and supervision of financial services. accounting standards are of great importance in the development of the single capital market in the european union, in particular in the context of the capital markets union project. the application of international financial reporting standards in the eu has contributed to strengthening the single market and has also strengthened the competitiveness of the european economy by enabling companies to attract capital and investments in global capital markets. international accounting standards must be approved before they become part of union legislation, thus ensuring that they are in the interest of the european economy. i support this resolution because i believe that the adherence to and application of financial reporting standards must be ensured in order to guarantee a level playing field for all in the single market.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the evaluation of international accounting standards and the activities of the international financial reporting standards foundation, the european financial reporting advisory group and the public interest oversight committee. i consider that internationally accepted accounting standards are necessary in a globalised world and that, in interaction with other financial services regulation legislation, they form an important part of the union framework for the regulation and supervision of financial services. i would also like to stress the importance of the role of accounting standards in the development of the single capital market in the european union, especially in the context of the capital markets union project. i believe that the application of international financial reporting standards in the european union contributes to strengthening the single market and to enhancing the competitiveness of the european economy.
written. ‒ i support this report which deals with the issue of european cooperation within the framework of the un operational peace initiative. this initiative comes with recommendations for the eu to improve its engagement in africa in the field of peace support operations. the european union has a mandate to help africa ensure its own security.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on peace support operations eu cooperation with the united nations and the african union (2015/2275(ini)) as peace support operations are one of the ways of responding to crisis situations with the support of internationally recognised organisations such as the un or the african union, with the aim of preventing armed conflict, preserving or building peace, respecting peace agreements and resolving emergencies in some countries. the aim of peace support activities is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the long term. a coordinated external action is needed, using diplomatic, security and development instruments. the report welcomes the un-au strategic partnership for peacebuilding and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018 and the importance of making further efforts in conflict prevention. member states should not act in isolation in support of peace support operations. it is called for european action to be prioritised to help manage the borders whose permeability is one of the causes of the rise in terrorism.
written. ‒ an inefficient institutional structure has led to frequent unrest and crises, and recently the security situation in africa has deteriorated significantly. the emergence of rebel groups, mercenaries and terrorism has shaken the entire african union, alarming the un's role as an internationally recognized ambassador for peace. un peacekeeping missions and counterterrorism actions are becoming increasingly common practice in many areas. the number of unstable states and areas without organized security has increased significantly, reflecting the increasing poverty of the population, violence and corruption in the african region. the eu is a key partner of the un in its efforts to reduce crises, with four military operations and five civilian missions coordinated with un missions. the objective of the mission is to ensure lasting peace, to create a secure, prosperous and stable environment resulting in adequate protection of civilians, respect for fundamental human rights and economic development of the african union countries. the main mechanism for european cooperation with the african union is the african peace facility, established in 2004 with a budget of eur 1.9 billion. i supported the report on peace support operations eu cooperation with the united nations and the african union, as strengthening institutional capacity is of key importance to the african union.
written. ‒ the un currently has nine peacekeeping operations in africa, and peace support operations are an important response to crises and war situations and can contribute in the long term to the final cessation of long-standing wars and conflicts. peace is the security of the whole world. the key to the success of peacekeeping operations in this deteriorating international environment, which significantly affects the natural and operational needs of an operation, is to approach each crisis individually and to offer a comprehensive response. the eu's cooperation with the un and the african union in peace support operations is crucial. this cooperation can be achieved through the exchange of resources, information, technology, training programmes and logistical support. the eu also has its own instruments through the common foreign and security policy with which it can intervene and contribute to peace in crisis countries. africa is a crisis hotspot that is never extinguished, the conflicts on the african continent involve hundreds of different interest groups and extremist groups of people who are difficult to reconcile, who are plotting the fate of ordinary people whose lives are at stake. in africa, development and progress have been halted. the obstacles to africa's future are crises and wars, and peace is a necessary precondition. i therefore supported this resolution which will involve the eu more closely in cooperation with the un and the au in establishing and maintaining peace.
written. ‒ peace support operations are one of the ways in which crisis responses are provided with the support of internationally recognised organisations such as the un or the african union, under a un mandate, for the purpose of preventing armed conflict, restoring, preserving or building peace, respecting peace agreements and addressing complex emergencies and challenges arising in failing or weak states, given that the stability of the african and european neighbourhood would significantly benefit all countries. the objective of the peace support operation is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the long term, as good governance, justice, strengthening the rule of law, protection of civilians, respect for human rights and security are essential prerequisites for achieving this objective, with successful reconciliation, reconstruction and economic development programmes contributing to the achievement of self-sustaining peace and prosperity. i support the peace support operation in cooperation with the united nations and the african union, given that the security situation in africa has changed dramatically over the last decade, with the emergence of terrorist and insurgent groups in somalia, nigeria and the sahel and saharan countries, and that peacekeeping and counter-terrorism operations have become the rule rather than the exception in many areas. more and more unstable states and regions are without organized government, leaving many exposed to poverty, lawlessness, corruption, and violence.
‒ the european union has invested some €1.5 billion in africa over the past two decades to support demining and help mine victims, making it the largest donor in the region. i supported the report by mr van orden with the aim of increasing the emphasis on political, humanitarian and development efforts to support civilian peacekeeping operations and to provide support to military actors. the report expresses particular concern at the high number of cases of sexual exploitation and forced prostitution of women, child prostitution and trafficking of children. it calls for respect for human rights, the avoidance of all forms of violence and reiterates that human rights must be at the heart of any initiative undertaken in the framework of peace support operations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report with a reservation, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ given that the creation of a more prosperous, secure and stable environment in the long term, as well as respect for human rights, protection of civilians, strengthening of the rule of law are among the primary objectives of peace support operations, i support this report. unfortunately, peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations have become the norm rather than the exception in many areas due to the emergence of terrorist and insurgent groups in africa over the past decade. the eu is currently engaged in four military operations and five civilian missions in africa, often operating in parallel or sequential with un operations, reflecting the eu's contribution to strengthening the african peace and security architecture. i also believe that one of the ways to respond to crises is to support peacekeeping operations. moreover, more than 120 000 personnel are deployed in 16 un peacekeeping operations and the un is also a major force for international peace and security. finally, i believe there is a clear need for mutual support in security and development interventions.
written. ‒ peace support operations are one of the ways in which crisis responses are provided with the support of internationally recognised organisations under the united nations mandate for the purpose of preventing armed conflict. the objective of peace support operations is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment, for which good governance, justice, protection of civilians, respect for human rights are essential preconditions. in the last decade, the security situation in africa has changed dramatically. terrorist and insurgent groups have emerged in somalia, nigeria and the sahel and saharan countries, and peacekeeping and counter-terrorism operations are becoming the rule rather than the exception. there are more and more areas without organized government, as well as unstable states. such a situation results in poverty, lawlessness, corruption, and violence. the development of a trilateral partnership between the un, the eu and the african union is a key factor in preventing further conflict. i support the guidelines set out in the report because i believe that there is an urgent need to invest more effort in conflict prevention in order to improve the security situation in africa. i think that other factors, such as political or religious radicalization, displacement, and climate change, need to be considered.
written. ‒ as peacekeeping operations are one of the ways in which crisis responses are provided with the support of internationally recognised organisations such as the united nations or the african union, i supported the report which seeks to increase the european union's contribution to peacekeeping operations and cooperation with the united nations and the african union. i consider that the objective of peace support operations is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the long term, and the basic prerequisites for achieving that objective are good governance, justice, the rule of law, the protection of civilians, respect for human rights and security. i would point out that european countries contribute greatly to the united nations system by providing financial support for un programmes and projects and i call for further efforts to be made to strengthen international security, stability and peace.
written. ‒ the food supply chain is a key sector for the daily lives of consumers and for the economy as a whole. the sector employs more than 47 million people within the eu and accounts for 7% of eu gdp. the eu has so far had measures that were mostly voluntary and that have proved insufficient. as many as 95 percent of the players in the food supply chain have been victims of unfair trading practices. it is precisely because of the perishability of food products that purchasers of goods very often manipulate contracts with suppliers. primary producers are faced with the choice of either letting their product rot or selling it for a pittance.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on unfair trade practices in the food supply chain (2015/2065(ini)) as it is a serious problem where this report does not solve the problem but certainly contributes to a better understanding of the difficulties faced by small food producers and can contribute to possible solutions. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exporting producer concerned has been able to obtain a benefit from the scheme. it is necessary to ensure that european competition law takes account of the specificities of agriculture and that this is in the interests of producers and consumers. conditions must be created for a more efficient market that will allow consumers to access products at competitive prices and protect primary producers. european legislation exists in terms of tackling unfair practices towards consumers and in terms of market competition, but there is no legislation dealing with unfair trading practices between different actors in the food supply chain. small farmers are the foundation of food production. it is a huge sector that employs a huge number of people, provides livelihoods for many families and enables development in rural areas. food production is a strategic resource and cannot be left entirely to market regulation.
written. ‒ the prevalence of unfair trading practices is becoming a serious problem, present in an increasing number of economic sectors. the latest commission report confirmed that unfair practices can occur in all parts of the food supply chain. the importance of the food supply chain in the european union is reflected in the number of employees, which exceeds 47 million and accounts for 7% of gross value added. the most common forms of unfair trading practices used by operators in the food supply chain are restrictions on market access, sudden and unjustified termination of contracts, delays in payment, insufficient or ambiguous information on the terms of contracts, charging for services that are fictitious, forced participation in promotional rebates and charging for better product positioning in markets and other additional unfair fees. unfair trading practices can have a negative impact on individual actors in the food supply chain, most often micro, small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises, spilling over to other sectors and the eu economy as a whole. the commission should be able to assess the impact of unfair practices on the union industry, in particular on the union industry's ability to compete in the global market, and to take appropriate measures to address the identified unfair practices. i supported the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. i believe that european competition law should give consumers access to a wide range of quality products at competitive prices.
written. ‒ data in croatia show that in the last few years almost 100 000 family farms have disappeared from the register and their fate is unknown, food imports are increasing and the purchase prices of agricultural products are falling. milk buyers are breaking contracts with producers overnight without any consequences, and in one year, 2,000 milk producers in croatia have gone out of business, while most of them still have loans and their existence and the future of their children are in question. similar examples are not lacking in other eu member states. in order to put an end to unfair trading practices in the food supply chain in the countries of the western part of the eu, a certain level of voluntary relations has been established between the partners in the chain, and on the initiative of the producer and purchaser organisations. however, despite good intentions and a desire to regulate the relationship voluntarily, such a system does not work either. i therefore believe that it is necessary to adopt framework legislation at eu level to tackle the problem of unfair trading practices and to guarantee fair conditions for european farmers and consumers to buy and sell. this is what the agri amendments were called for and adopted, and this report has sent a clear message that we will no longer tolerate unfair trading practices.
written. ‒ given that producers sometimes trade at a loss after negotiating with other actors in the food chain, e.g. in cases of devaluation and price cuts in supermarkets, and that unfair trading practices are an obstacle to the development and proper functioning of the internal market and seriously impede the proper functioning of the market, the european parliament welcomes the steps taken so far by the commission to combat unfair trading practices in order to ensure a more balanced market and to overcome the current fragmentation resulting from different national approaches to tackling the problem of unfair trading practices in the eu. however, it points out that these steps are not sufficient to tackle unfair trading practices. i welcome parliament's decision to crack down on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain and believe that the strengthening and establishment of producer organisations should be accompanied by an increase in the bargaining power of farmers in the food supply chain, in particular by enabling them to collectively negotiate contracts.
written. ‒ unfair trading practices are present in large numbers and in many economic sectors and can occur at any part of the food supply chain in business-to-business transactions. cross-border trade between member states accounts for 20% of total eu food and drink production and employs more than 47 million eu citizens. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets and to take appropriate measures to address the potential impact of unfair trading practices on the financial markets. i supported the report by the czech representative to introduce consistent and stringent measures to prevent such problems in the eu food supply chain and to make markets more efficient with a level playing field for all partners.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the size and strategic importance of the food supply chain for the european union should be taken into account, as this sector employs more than 47 million people in the eu and the total value of the eu market for products related to the retail food trade is estimated at eur 1.05 billion. i support this report as unfair trading practices in the food supply chain are difficult to interpret as a breach of the current competition law, as its existing tools are only effective in the case of some forms of non-competitive behaviour. in this connection, i consider that unfair trading practices are a serious problem that exists in many economic sectors. the same problem has negative effects on the weakest link in the food supply chain and has been highlighted by the commission, the european economic and social committee and the parliament on several occasions. food trade has an increasingly important cross-border dimension and operators in the food supply chain benefit greatly from the single market. finally, small, medium and micro-enterprises, which account for more than 90% of the european economic structure, are particularly vulnerable to the effects of unfair trading practices, and competition law only partially covers the same inequalities in the food supply chain.
written. ‒ generally speaking, unfair trading practices can be defined as practices that deviate grossly from good business conduct, as opposed to good faith behaviour imposed by one trading partner on another. such practices arise where there are imbalances in financial resources and can have a detrimental effect on the union economy as a whole, as they can lead to firms, in particular smes, losing their ability to invest and deciding not to expand their business in the single market. the commission also found that the exporting producer had not provided any evidence that the exporting producer had engaged in dumping during the rip. the commission should be able to take into account the impact of the measures in the member states and the impact of the measures in the union on the level of protection of consumers. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the adoption of common standards will allow a labour market in which there are fair and transparent relations between all parties involved in the food supply chain.
written. ‒i voted in favour of this report, but with reservations, because of certain ambiguities in the text relating to the introduction and regulation of new genetic technologies in eu agriculture.
written. ‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution on technical solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu because, while i support technological progress and a new approach to agriculture, i also believe that we need to be very cautious when it comes to individual agricultural innovations and a progressive approach. in that context, i do not support the current market trend that we all eat the same. the european union cannot be the sole producer of food either, but it is necessary to ensure that each continent and country is able to provide its own diversified food production. i further submit that all necessary precautions should be taken to ensure that health and the environment are not compromised and therefore i cannot support this report.
written. ‒ the world's population is growing and is estimated to reach 9.6 billion by 2050, resulting in a 70% increase in food demand. this report seeks to bring together the possibilities for ensuring an active european agricultural sector, which will develop innovative solutions and technologies in all types of agriculture. the eu should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability. the eu and member states, including the academic community, breeders, farmers and food producers, need to work together to improve the transition from research to practice. it is also important to establish a regulatory environment that is more conducive to innovation and ensures that eu rules are not an obstacle. with land being reduced, the environment degraded, water scarce, energy demands increasing, and new pests emerging, the natural environment is under pressure, and farmers find it increasingly difficult to produce food sustainably. i supported this report because it did not accept an amendment which sought to allow other land uses, including urbanization, industry, tourism and recreation, which are in competition with agricultural land.
written. ‒ i voted against the controversial parts of this report which were subsequently excluded, and which related above all to the promotion of new genetic engineering techniques and the attempt to amend the eu legislative framework for gmos in order to facilitate the authorisation of such techniques and technologies. the biotech industry has for a long time continuously and irresponsibly tried to convince the commission of the need to deregulate new gmo techniques, which would ultimately mean that products resulting from their application should not be checked and labelled, which is unacceptable. the second controversial issue in this report concerned the use of 'low-risk chemical substances' new pesticides for which the authorisation and application was also sought to alleviate the administrative burden in the authorisation process. both of these controversial topics negate the precautionary principle and have been aimed at supporting industrial food production, and agricultural production based on industrial principles results in harmful effects on the components of the environment: on water, air and soil, but also on biodiversity, but also on those who consume such food. i am glad that we rejected such proposals because they are contrary to what the eu prides itself on producing quality food on small and medium-sized family farms.
written. ‒ given that our societies face many challenges in agriculture and have a role to play, and that the world's population is estimated to grow to 9.6 billion by 2050, which means that there will be some 2.4 billion more people living on the planet than today, and that the estimated increase in the world's population will require an increase in food production and supply of between 60% and 110% to meet food needs, i would like to stress first of all that this is fortunately a self-initiated report that has no legislative value or implications for the legislation of the member states. however, in the context of the current free trade negotiations and the change in legislation authorising gm varieties at eu level, it deserves particular attention. together with my group of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, we have decided to oppose certain parts of mrs mcintyre's report. i believe that the precautionary principle should remain the fundamental principle guiding european legislation and i have stressed in all my speeches that we must say no to the pressures of the gmo industry and strongly advocate for the preservation of food production in a natural, safe and environmentally sound way. if any of the contested parts is supported by a majority of my colleagues in the european parliament, i shall vote against the report as a whole.
written. ‒ the world's population is continuously increasing and the demand for healthy food is one of the biggest challenges we face. farmers believe that it is becoming increasingly difficult to produce food sustainably, due to various pressures on our environment, including land degradation, ecological loss and environmental degradation. a crucial part of the solution is technological innovation, in particular agricultural technologies, to make agriculture more productive and sustainable. to ensure that europe has an active agricultural sector, we must ensure that all our farmers benefit from technological innovation. i supported the report by ms mcintyre which aims to develop the european agricultural sector through research into new technologies to boost the progress of sustainable agriculture and thus make the sector more attractive for investment.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ meeting the demand for healthy food and the need for optimal nutrition is one of the greatest challenges facing the world. the demand for food is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. technological innovation is a crucial part of the solution. agricultural technologies have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable. to ensure that europe has an active agricultural sector, we need to ensure that all our farmers benefit from technological innovation. finding solutions that work in small rural communities is just as important as solving the problems facing many of our large agricultural economies. the eu and member states, academia and industry, including growers, the agrochemical sector, farmers and food producers, need to work together to improve the translation of research into practice, from laboratories to the farm to the consumer. this will allow europe to enter a new phase in agricultural innovation. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the european union should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability. i also believe that the european union must introduce new technologies in the agricultural sector to make agriculture more sustainable and productive.
written. ‒ rural areas, and agricultural areas in particular, are the most exposed to actual and potential climate change and there is a need to adapt agriculture to changing circumstances by using all available technical solutions. i believe that precision farming is key to achieving sustainable agriculture in the european union and that it requires the reliability of technology, but also the need for innovation to solve the problem of high development costs. agriculture is a sector that benefits from european support, which also shows its importance and key role in the use of natural resources and the economic development of rural areas. but as i do not agree with promoting genetic engineering as the only realistic way of dealing with the current challenges, i abstained.
written. ‒ i support this report on strengthening innovation and economic development in the management of agricultural holdings in the future. the key to sustainable agriculture, i see, is better management of natural resources, reduction of fertilizer use, better use of soil and water, management of information systems, and so on. we also need to focus on food waste, because every year 100 million tonnes of food is thrown away in europe, which i consider to be a huge waste and irresponsibility.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on strengthening innovation and economic development in the management of european farms in the future because i believe that new technologies are an important factor for a sustainable and competitive european agriculture in the 21st century. innovation enables agriculture to be part of the solution to a range of economic and environmental challenges and, in this context, it is crucial to ensure agricultural production that reduces its impact on the environment. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i therefore believe that we need to revise outdated legislation and encourage investment in the production process.
‒ the un food and agriculture organization (fao) estimates that to increase the world's population to 9.1 billion by 2050, it will be necessary to increase the production of safe, high-quality food by 60%, and crop yields in developed countries by 24% by that year. fao estimates also say that arable land will increase by only 4.3%, which will require better management of natural resources to curb soil degradation. this report addresses the need to strengthen innovation and economic development in sustainable farm management, which can be a solid foundation for economic success and help ensure that all eu citizens have sufficient supplies of quality and safe food. the eu is the world's largest exporter of agricultural products, making the agri-food sector a key economic pillar of the union, employing 47 million people. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action and climate change objectives, including the implementation of the union's climate action and climate change strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action and climate change strategy. innovation can increase labour productivity and income by reducing production costs and increasing business efficiency. economic development and sustainable production can be achieved simultaneously through innovation, research and development, new management and business models, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on strengthening innovation and economic development in the future management of european agricultural economies. looking back, in history, farming practices have always been changed and improved by the development of new tools and tools, by the development of new varieties and breeds. the only constants of this development were the environments to which both man and his family had to adapt, working in the fields and creating a safe meal for themselves and society. looking to the future, however, we see the new and countless possibilities that modern technology and technology bring with it. from developing production methods, tillage, cultivation, plant and animal breeding, to monitoring production by drones or from space, and so on. but in all of this, we must not forget the same historical constants - the environment in which we will produce food in the future and the man and his family, who will continue to produce food for themselves and society in the future. this is where i see the fullness of this report, as it looks to the future without forgetting man, family and environment.
written. ‒ consumers are demanding that stricter and better environmental, nutritional and health standards and values be introduced into food production, while at the same time the agricultural sector must become diverse and innovative in order to provide quality, safe and affordable food for all citizens and guarantee decent and sustainable profits for their producers. on the other hand, the quality of life of agricultural workers and rural communities must be improved. i would remind you that simpler measures and clearer guidelines for the implementation of cap measures could encourage farmers to adopt more sustainable farming practices. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, including the implementation of the new rules and regulations. however, i stress the importance of new innovative and affordable solutions for the agricultural sector in terms of increased use of more environmentally friendly methods, goods and resources, which could include new farming and field management methods, but also ways to increase the use of renewable energy and phase out the need for fossil fuels.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mep engström on strengthening innovation and agricultural development to implement the external dimension of the development of innovative plant breeding techniques i welcome the further development of european seed banks, which is key to the development of new and diverse plant varieties in order to ensure higher yields, higher nutritional value and better resistance to pests. i stress the importance of developing strategic investments in the organic farming sector to improve techniques for increasing soil microbiological activity and biodiversity. i'm not sure.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ soil erosion, and in particular soil degradation, has led to a decline in the internal fertility and productivity of arable land, and the loss of ecosystem functions such as humidification and pollination are the causes of soil erosion phenomena. the efficiency of ecosystem functions needs to be increased in an innovative way in order to build resilience to climate change. also, according to estimates by the un food and agriculture organization, the expected growth of the world's population to 9.1 billion people by 2050 requires an increase in the production of quality and safe food by 60%. consumers are already demanding better quality, safer food and better nutritional and health value, which means that agricultural production needs to be increased and improved, while being environmentally sensitive and making greater use of natural processes and ecosystem services. the important fact is that 47 million people are employed in the eu in the retail and food processing and foodservice sectors, which contribute positively to the trade balance. finally, there is a large area of abandoned agricultural land that is not cultivated in some member states, which needs to be exploited and adapted with the help of technologies and agro-ecological approaches, as they can significantly help agricultural holdings. in view of the above, i support this report.
‒ the united nations food and agriculture organization (fao) estimates that the increase in the world's population will require a 60% increase in the production of safe, high-quality food by 2050, while conserving resources for future generations and preventing food waste and loss. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy. the european union is the world's largest exporter of agricultural products. the agri-food sector is a key economic pillar of the union, employing 47 million people and contributing 7,2% of the total value of eu exports. the european union market for food and agriculture is one of the most integrated markets in europe and regulations are needed to ensure a more level playing field and fair competition in order to stimulate economic development in all member states. i support the guidelines set out in this report because i believe they will lead to a more productive model of agriculture that is more resource-efficient and makes better use of products that are key to addressing sustainability issues. i also think this is a step forward in increasing the amount of land under cultivation.
written. ‒ i supported the report on strengthening innovation and economic development in the governance of european farms in the future as it emphasises the importance of innovation in the agricultural sector and its contribution to further strengthening the sector and its competitiveness in the future. according to the un, doubling agricultural productivity by 2030 is needed to achieve the sustainable development goals, while at the same time the agricultural sector will need to adapt to climate change and improve the quality of ecosystems and soils. i consider innovation to be a key tool and a horizontal priority in the policy for the development and implementation of the cap for the period 2014-2020, and therefore the commission should provide a more ambitious overall strategy with measurable results to align research and innovation with policy priorities.
written. the commission's proposals are welcome and a step forward, but they are not enough. we need short-term policies with concrete decisions to save lives, but more, much more than that. we don't need a long-term policy on africa. we need a permanent policy towards africa, towards all those african countries which are the countries of origin of migrants and towards those countries which are countries in transition. only a permanent policy with a completely new concept can solve the problems in the countries that should become our partners, not new neocolonial territories and economies. the global compact on migration is a step in the right direction, but the doubling of africa's population in the next few decades is a permanent solution!
madam president, the previous debate has made it clear that we need a clear short-term, long-term, but i would say permanent, literally permanent policy for africa. that's why we also need legal channels of migration, because only if we introduce the right legal channels of migration can we expect to integrate migrants into our society. everything else will be too perverse, too serious an improvisation, and that is why i welcome this proposal that the commission is putting forward, because it is going in that direction, because it is going in the direction of creating legal channels for migration, but i call for the maximum involvement, in addition to the member states, of course, of local and regional authorities, because they too must be involved in this legal process of integrating migrants.
mr president, i fully support the launch of the new programme, the new skills programme, and i would like to thank the commissioner for this work, because it is really necessary for european citizens and european workers to adapt to the changes taking place in the labour market. we understand that the aim is to enable european citizens to adapt to the changing world of work with the tools you offer here. so of course we have to take care of the young, first of all, but also the workers who should be able to be employed for life and therefore thanks to these innovations that you offer here to keep us competitive. it is a real shame that young people are employed in jobs that do not match their education, their talents and their aspirations. i also commend and welcome the target by 2020, which is that 75 per cent of the working population should be employed from 20 to 64, promoting certainly smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the next ten years and beyond, is also welcome. lifelong learning is essential, as is adapting to new jobs, especially digital skills, and i would like to welcome the conditions for new job creation. the biggest problem is the mismatch between education and training, and that's what leads to youth unemployment the most. i believe that we will take this into account through this programme and to ensure sustainability, more people need to be employed across the union.
mr president, as i said this morning, the present members of the union accounted for 30% of world gdp in 1980, and today that share has been reduced to 17%. global economic and technological trends are changing and europe must adapt to them. i see no other way but to invest in new knowledge and skills and better link the education system to the labour market, which we need to further liberalise. if it is to keep pace, europe must be open to technological innovation and new business models that change the current conditions of the labour market. attempts to preserve existing jobs by regulatory cuts to uber and netflix will not stop these companies, but they could stop the necessary transformation of the european economy and its adaptation to global trends, which will have a much more negative impact on the number of jobs in the european union in the long run.
mr. president, torture and other forms of inhuman treatment must not be accepted as a method of fighting terrorism. i think we should send a clear message from this place that we condemn all intelligence activities and domestic and partner services in which people are tortured on european soil. i'm aware that certain intelligence circles consider this practice to be very effective in gathering information that could help prevent further attacks, and that some citizens, given the increasing frequency of attacks and the impression of horrific images from the scene, will feel it's okay to retaliate with the same or similar measure. there will be increasing pressures to renounce our humanity and our christian values, at least until the danger passes. if we accept that, we'll be no different than those we're fighting.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i want to thank you, mr. deputy, for accepting my question. i've listened to you carefully and i've come to a conclusion, but i'd like to hear your confirmation. does it seem to you that the efsi, which is of course an excellent instrument and which i strongly support, nevertheless tends to finance projects in the so-called old member states of the european union, and primarily in the new countries, namely in the countries of eastern europe, where we almost do not have any serious funding and there is almost no greater awareness of the possibilities of financing through the efsi? and do you think that the commission should do something in this direction to help precisely those countries which are of course less developed than the old member states?
written. the new investment plan through the implementation of the efsi is well compensating for the lack of investment in the european market. the efsi is intended to support the development of the european economy by supporting the development of the european social model, by promoting the social dialogue and by supporting the social dialogue. the criticism is that this is just a continuation of the eib's traditional activities. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi and its impact on the general budget of the union. the efsi should be used to support the development of the union's energy sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. for all this, we could form investment platforms and through public-private partnership projects or just public and private projects raise investment potential.
on 24 june 2015, parliament approved the regulation establishing the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) within the european investment bank in response to the financial crisis. the commission has so far approved 64 projects for which eur 3,9 billion has been allocated. the total investment is expected to exceed eur 100 billion. the majority of projects (75 per cent) relate to energy, r & d, transport and digital technology and the majority of them are approved for the 5 member states which are also the 5 largest european economies (france, italy, germany, uk and spain) as many as 43 out of 64 projects. 12 member states have not yet withdrawn funds from this fund for strategic projects. on 1 june, the commission announced a plan to extend the initiative beyond the three-year period originally envisaged and to strengthen support for smes, given the success of this part of the programme so far. in view of the apparent disproportionate withdrawal of efsi funds among member states, as well as the fact that the vast majority of funds go to the more developed and largest economies of the eu, i ask the commission to extend the criteria for the allocation of efsi funds instead of allocating them solely on the basis of project readiness, to take into account the economic development of member states and the impact of their economies on the financial crisis.
madam president, we need tunisia as a partner, we need tunisia as a democratic country in the southern mediterranean, as an example of success in transition. tunisia is at a kind of crossroads again today, and that is why our effort to help tunisia with 500 million euros is a good path, a path that we must take because there is no other, there is no alternative to this path, or again chaos or again disaster in that country. so i'm sure that what we're going to decide today is a good example of how to help those countries that really want to embrace democracy and want to be part of the free world. i fully support this report and of course i will vote for it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a decision submitted pursuant to rule 198 of the rules of procedure on the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and irregularities in the application of union law in the field of money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion, its powers, numerical composition and duration of mandate (2016/2726 ((rso)) as i consider that all market players, including large multinational companies, must be in the same position as citizens and pay taxes in accordance with their business activities. any tax evasion is unacceptable. we should support the oecd plan and the european commission's proposal to establish rules against tax avoidance. more cooperation and coordination between member states and competent national tax authorities is needed in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. i support the european commission's proposal, which is based on the principle that tax should be paid where profits are made and new value is created.
written. ‒ a committee of inquiry will be set up to investigate alleged offences or reports relating to money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. close and open cooperation between member states is required in relation to tax information and documents, in particular in cases where there are grounds for suspecting irregularities. member states should exchange information relating to individual cases when requested to do so by another member state. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. member states should take measures to encourage third countries to engage in optimal and aggressive tax planning. this will also improve cooperation at international level.
written. ‒ the european parliament established the committee of inquiry into the panama papers on the initiative of the european people's party, which i co-signed, and which called for transparency in the registration of ownership of companies, wanting to put an end to the registration of a company where it is enough to have a post box for registration, and the real owner remains secret and unknown. the ownership of companies, whether in europe or anywhere else in the world, cannot be a secret because a true entrepreneur should not be ashamed of the work he does. we need to end the fictitious companies that produce nothing and have zero employees and serve the powerful only for criminal activities money laundering and tax evasion. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the objective is also to highlight the structural problems that make it difficult to combat money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion effectively. very often it is member countries that paralyze international action to prevent money laundering and tax evasion. i am of the opinion that representatives of the law firm mossack fonseca and the panamanian government should be invited to the european parliament for a hearing.
written. ‒ i welcome the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate allegations of breaches and irregularities in the application of union legislation in the area of money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. the commission will also be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the implementation of the directive by the commission, in particular on the implementation of the directive by the member states, and on the implementation of the directive by the commission. in view of the recent scandals known as the panama papers, luxembourg leaks, etc., the proper application of union legislation in the field of money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion is more necessary than ever.
written. ‒ i support the decision to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and irregularities in the application of european legislation. wherever possible, they should give priority to resolving disputes within existing parliamentary committees. however, this case is a multi-layered issue that touches on different areas of tax evasion, money laundering and legal instruments that are supposed to prevent financial malpractice, and there are strong reasons for it to be discussed by a special committee of inquiry. i expect the committee, in accordance with its mandate, to investigate the numerous alleged failures of the european commission in the implementation, i.e. the member states in the application and enforcement of european legislation, and in particular directive 2005/60/ec on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. in addition, i consider it crucial that the commission fulfils another duty under its mandate and, taking into account the information obtained through the investigation, makes clear recommendations for more efficient taxation that would minimise the possibilities of abuse and ensure the full application of the new directive 2015/849 as well as transparency of beneficial ownership information.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that a committee of inquiry should be set up to investigate allegations of breaches and irregularities in the application of union legislation in the field of tax avoidance and evasion and money laundering. i believe that the establishment of the board is useful because it would help in the investigations of alleged cases where member state authorities have not applied administrative sanctions and other administrative measures to institutions responsible for serious breaches of national provisions.
‒ the european parliament has decided to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches of union law and irregularities in the application of that legislation in the area of money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. the committee of inquiry is responsible for investigating alleged failures by the commission and member states to effectively apply and enforce directive 2005/60/ec. it is also responsible for investigating alleged cases where member state authorities have failed to apply administrative sanctions to institutions responsible for serious breaches of national provisions adopted pursuant to the same directive. the committee of inquiry is also responsible for investigating potential cases of breaches of the obligation of sincere cooperation under the treaty on european union by a member state and its associated and dependent territories, to the extent relevant to the scope of this inquiry. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of inquiry, which shall be composed of representatives of the member states and of the commission. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that the establishment of a committee of inquiry will not only sanction potential offenders but also force member states to fully respect and apply european union law.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver as it gives consent to the conclusion of that agreement, which i believe will be both beneficial and most helpful in simplifying travel for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and stimulating the development of the tourism sector. the palau economy is primarily based on the services sector, which accounts for 86% of gdp, and this agreement is therefore highly desirable.
written. ‒ relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union, of the other part, under the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and citizens of palau to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period, for all categories of persons whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. the report underlines that this agreement will have a positive impact by facilitating travel for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment, stimulating the development of the tourism sector and enhancing the union's trade with palau. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific states, including palau. fisheries, shellfish farming and tourism are the sectors with the highest development rates. among other things, palau has announced its intention to source 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020, and the government has launched the diversification of the economy to reduce its dependence on foreign aid. palau poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration, security or public order. as visa-free travel is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i supported the draft decision on the conclusion of the eu-republic of palau agreement with a view to deepening the eu-republic of palau relationship. it strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on a range of issues, such as those relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement is expected to have a positive impact by facilitating travel for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and stimulating the development of the tourism sector, which is very important as palau's economy is primarily based on the service sector, which accounts for 86% of gdp, with fisheries, shellfish farming and tourism being the sectors with the highest level of development. given that palau has made great progress in recent years, in particular in terms of strong political participation of women, but also in the area of preventing trafficking in human beings, that it is a signatory to all international human rights conventions, the ratification and implementation of which is supported by the eu, that palau does not pose any threat in terms of illegal migration or public security, i believe that visa abolition is a good solution that will greatly reduce travel costs and bring european citizens and pacific citizens closer together.
written. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which aims to deepen relations between the european union and the republic of palau and has great political weight in the framework of the cotonou agreement. it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i agree with rapporteur maria gabriel that the visa waiver agreement will have a positive impact, as it will facilitate travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and stimulate the development of the tourism sector. palau's economy is primarily based on the services sector, which accounts for 86% of gdp, with a booming tourism sector, thanks to the increased number of flights serving the island. the standard of living in the palau archipelago is one of the highest in the pacific. since 2000, when palau was admitted to the category of acp countries, relations with the union have intensified. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) to the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including palau.
written. ‒ relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part. the agreement on visa waiver is of great importance as it strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i supported the recommendation of representative gabriel that will make travel easier for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and stimulate the development of the tourism sector. the abolition of short-stay visas is an important step in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and citizens of palau to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. i support the report on the agreement between the european union and palau on the short-stay visa waiver as such an agreement is the result of an effort to deepen relations between the eu and the republic of palau and will further strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue.
written. ‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, regulates relations between the european union and the republic of palau. in december 2015, a bilateral agreement was signed between the european union and the republic of palau. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and palau to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period and applies to all categories of persons whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. the commission has also received comments from the palau authorities, which have not provided any information on the mobility of the applicants. the republic of palau poses no threat in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. i support this agreement because i believe it strengthens cultural and economic relations and brings to the fore other important political issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. the abolition of visas will also facilitate travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and stimulate tourism development. visa waiver is an essential precondition for bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together.
written. ‒ i believe that this agreement will have a positive impact as it will facilitate travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and stimulate the development of the tourism sector and i supported the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement will allow citizens of the european union and citizens of palau to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. i believe that this visa waiver agreement not only enables citizens to reap the full benefits of the partnership between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the european union, but also to participate actively in it and to travel more easily and at lower cost.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver as it gives its consent to the conclusion of that agreement and as it could allow for a better trade exchange which has a great potential for the development of that country. the agricultural sector accounts for 20% of the kingdom of tonga's gdp and the services sector accounts for 60% of gdp. although their investment and trade are still small, exports are one area where the country could make a big leap forward. with the help of this agreement, that situation is easily possible.
written. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of an effort to deepen relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga and further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including the kingdom of tonga. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the aid, which is the beneficiary of the aid, and that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the aid. the report notes that the visa waiver agreement will have a positive impact on investment and development of the tourism sector. this agreement allows us to strengthen our partnership and the abolition of visas can be seen as a positive sign of support for that country and the efforts it is making. for all of the above, i have endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i supported the draft decision on the conclusion of the eu-kingdom of tonga agreement on visa waiver as it is important for further deepening the relations between the member states and the kingdom of tonga. the agreement strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue, and is expected to have a positive impact on investment and development in the tourism sector. the economy of tonga is based on the agriculture sector (pumpkin growing and tuna fishing), which accounts for 20% of gdp, and the service sector, which accounts for 60% of gdp, with a gradually developing tourism sector. the main products that tonga exports are unprocessed agricultural products such as palm oil and sugar, and the main import products are small and large vessels, with a constant trade surplus. the trade has therefore a great potential for development. this agreement allows for the strengthening of the partnership, while at the same time focusing on issues of importance to the citizens of the union such as the abolition of the death penalty or the fight against violence against women. the visa waiver is a positive sign of support for tonga and its extensive efforts.
written. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which aims to deepen relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga and has great political weight in the framework of the cotonou agreement. it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the economy of tonga is primarily based on the agricultural sector (pumpkin growing and tuna fishing) which accounts for 20% of gdp, and the service sector which accounts for 60% of gdp, with the tourism sector gradually developing. the commission has not found any evidence that the chinese exporting producers have been able to obtain sufficient quantities of the product concerned from the prc. the main products exported by this country are unprocessed agricultural products such as palm oil and sugar, and the main products imported by it are small and large vessels, with this pacific country having a constant trade surplus. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry's ability to raise capital was not affected by the dumped imports from the prc. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including the kingdom of tonga.
written. ‒ the eu-kingdom of tonga agreement on the short-stay visa waiver allows eu citizens and citizens of tonga to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. it should be noted that this country poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of disruption of security and public order. i supported the recommendation of representative gabriel on the visa waiver agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga because i consider it a positive sign of support for the country. the agreement will also have a positive impact on investment and the development of the tourism sector.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the eu-tonga agreement on the short-stay visa waiver allows eu citizens and tongan citizens to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. i support the report on the agreement between the european union and tonga on the short-stay visa waiver as such an agreement is the result of an effort to deepen relations between the eu and the kingdom of tonga and will further strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues.
written. ‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, regulates relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga. in november 2015, a bilateral agreement was signed between the european union and the kingdom of tonga. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and citizens of tonga to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period and applies to all categories of persons whose purpose of travel is not to engage in an activity for remuneration. the commission has also received information from the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (unoca) that indicates that the number of persons in the united nations refugee and migration flows from tonga is increasing. i support this agreement because i believe that visa abolition can be seen as a positive sign of support for this country and all the efforts it is making, particularly in the field of human rights protection.
written. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that the visa waiver can be seen as a positive sign of support for that country and the extensive efforts it is making, because it poses no threat to the european union, either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. the agreement provides for the visa-free movement of nationals of the european union and of the republic of tonga to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports, whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver, as this gives the consent to the conclusion of that agreement. this country is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens still require a visa to enter the eu. this agreement will enable the process of rapprochement between the european and colombian peoples, which is extremely important for many reasons, one of which is the fact that colombia is the eu's fourth economic partner from the region, with a trade volume of as much as eur 11,884 billion.
written. ‒ in view of the generally positive assessment of colombia, on 19 may 2015 the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia. the agreement was signed on 2 december 2015 in brussels and has been provisionally applied since then, pending the approval of the european parliament. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and colombia to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and further strengthens economic and cultural relations and political dialogue on various issues. this agreement will also allow for the strengthening of regional coherence, as colombia is one of the few countries in latin america whose nationals still require a visa and is a significant factor in the process of rapprochement between the european and colombian peoples. as colombia is the eu's fourth largest economic partner in the region, with trade volume of up to eur 11,9 billion, the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, strengthen economic ties between businesses and facilitate investment. for the reasons i have given, i have supported this report.
written. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies the political dialogue between the european union and the republic of colombia. colombia is the eu's fourth economic partner from the region and the eu is colombia's second largest trading partner. the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, strengthen economic ties between businesses and facilitate investment. thanks to its rich natural and agricultural resources and the development of its oil and mineral sectors, colombia is experiencing strong growth. the number of colombian tourists in the eu has increased in recent years (annual growth of 5%) and a number of european companies have already invested heavily in hotel and tourism infrastructure and visa liberalisation could further increase tourist traffic between the two sides. the agreement contains a joint declaration on cooperation in the area of illegal immigration, and colombia can also become a key partner in the field of security and the fight against organised crime, in particular against drug trafficking. it is also worth noting that this agreement will make it possible to strengthen regional coherence, since colombia is one of the few countries in latin america whose citizens still require visas, and i therefore support this agreement and believe that such a decision will help in the process of bringing the european and colombian peoples closer together.
written. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of a deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement will also allow for the strengthening of regional coherence, as colombia is one of the few countries in latin america whose nationals still require a visa and is a significant factor in the process of rapprochement between the european and colombian peoples. colombia is the eu's fourth economic partner from the region, with a trade volume of as much as eur 11,884 billion. the eu is colombia's second largest trading partner. foreign trade accounts for about 20% of gdp. the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, strengthen economic ties between businesses and facilitate investment. the republic of colombia has one of the most dynamic and open economies in the region. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the measures taken to address the deficiencies identified in the complaint. in this respect, this agreement will allow the strengthening of relations between the two parties and give a new impetus to trade. in this context, i support the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver.
written. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver helps to strengthen relations between the european union and the republic of colombia, strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue. colombia's foreign trade accounts for about 20 percent of world gdp, and the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs and facilitate investment. the agreement also contains a joint declaration on cooperation in the area of illegal immigration and it is important to highlight the signing of a strategic cooperation agreement with europol, which represents an important step forward in strengthening cooperation in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking. in line with all of the above, i supported the recommendation of representative gabriel on an agreement to strengthen relations between the european union and the republic of colombia.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver allows eu citizens and colombian citizens to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. i support the report on the agreement between the european union and colombia on the short-stay visa waiver as such an agreement is the result of an effort to deepen relations between the eu and the republic of colombia and will further strengthen economic and cultural relations, intensify political dialogue on issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. furthermore, this agreement will allow for further strengthening of regional coherence as colombia is one of the few latin american countries whose nationals still require a visa. the agreement is therefore important for the process of rapprochement between the european and colombian peoples.
written. ‒ a bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia was signed in december 2015. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and of colombia to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period and applies to all categories of persons whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. colombia is the european union's fourth economic partner from the region and the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, strengthen economic ties between businesses and facilitate investment. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, which has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. in terms of mobility, data on entry bans, arrests and returns show that colombia was a risky country in terms of illegal migration. admittedly, though, the situation has improved considerably in recent years. i support this agreement because i believe it can make colombia a key partner in the field of security and the fight against organised crime, in particular against drug trafficking.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia. i believe that this agreement will allow for the strengthening of regional coherence, as colombia is one of the few countries in latin america whose citizens still require a visa. the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, strengthen economic ties between businesses and facilitate investment. i also believe that the agreement will make important progress in strengthening cooperation between the union and colombia in the fight against organised crime, which demonstrates the will to continue cooperation in this area.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products (ita), as this gives its consent to the conclusion of that agreement. the need, importance, and usefulness of information technology products today need not be mentioned. trade in this sector is expanding at an unprecedented rate and has experienced a tremendous development over the last 20 years. the first information technology agreement (ita) was signed in 1996 and since then more and more signatory countries have joined. the extension of the ita is crucial as it is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the establishment of the wto with strong potential to create jobs and boost gdp growth, but it is very important that more countries accede to the agreement in order for the union to reap its full benefits.
written. ‒ the first information technology trade enhancement agreement (ita) was concluded at the singapore ministerial conference in december 1996 and entered into force in 1997. today, ita has 82 members and covers 97% of the market in the wto sector. the extension of the ita agreement aims at eliminating import duties for 201 it products not covered by the original ita agreement. it is expected to eliminate tariffs on $1.3 trillion in trade, which should boost the world economy by $190 billion. the products covered by the agreement include new generations of semiconductors, gps navigation systems and medical devices. the customs duties on these products will be phased out, with immediate effect for 65% of the products and for all products within seven years. the european commission estimates that the eu will lose approximately eur 1,5 billion in tariffs on it products as a result of the extension of the ita. however, this loss will also be spread over 7 years. i supported this recommendation because i believe that the extension of the ita will result in lower prices for consumers but also for producers and that this will stimulate both job creation and gdp growth.
written. ‒ i supported this recommendation giving consent to the conclusion of an agreement on the elimination of customs duties on some 200 it products that had not been included in the first ita until now. the agreement eliminates customs duties on next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation devices, medical equipment such as magnetic resonance imaging devices, printed circuit board machines, telecommunications satellites and touchscreens. the availability of the latest information technology is essential for further strengthening the economy and growth, especially in the it and computing sectors, but also in the communications and medical sectors. the commission has also concluded that the union industry is not in a position to benefit from the exemption from the duty on certain products in the extended list. as the exports and imports covered turned out to be significantly higher than estimated, it can be expected that the economic effects will also be higher in reality, and this will also have an impact on the creation of new jobs.
written. ‒ i give my consent to the conclusion of the agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products. the first information technology agreement (ita) was concluded at the singapore ministerial conference in december 1996 and entered into force in 1997. originally signed by only 29 member countries of the world trade organization, the agreement now has 82 signatories. the agreement on information technology commits each signatory to eliminate customs duties and to impose a zero duty rate on all information technology products covered by that agreement, in accordance with the most-favoured-nation principle. the agreement covers some 200 tariff items, including computers, telephones, but also raw materials, components and machinery for the production of it products. the duty-free regime introduced by the signatories of the itas has played an important role in the rapid development and expansion of trade in the it sector during the almost 20 years of the agreement. trade in that sector has quadrupled. however, with technological advances in that period, the it sector was completely transformed, while the scope of that agreement remained the same. it is for this very reason that i consider it necessary to align the scope of that agreement with technological progress in the information technology sector.
written. ‒ the agreement on information technology entered into force in 1997. today, it has 82 subsidiaries and covers 97% of the information technology products trade. the agreement obliges members to eliminate customs duties and to impose a zero duty rate on all information technology products covered by the agreement. the abolition of customs duties creates conditions for the expansion and development of trade in these products, as confirmed by its quadrupling. the commission notes that the agreement does not cover new generation products, and that their inclusion could lead to a significant increase in employment and a boost to gdp growth. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to impose a duty on the export of information technology products to the eu. the result would be favourable for consumers but also for producers that depend on imported parts. i therefore supported the recommendation of ms quisthoudt-rowohl.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report with a reservation, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the first information technology agreement (ita), initially concluded by only 29 wto member countries and now with 82 signatories, was concluded at the ministerial conference in singapore in december 1996 and entered into force in 1997. the agreement on information technology provides for each signatory to agree to eliminate customs duties and impose a zero duty rate on all information technology products covered by that agreement, in accordance with the most-favoured-nation principle. the agreement covers some 200 tariff items, including computers, telephones, but also raw materials, components and machinery for the production of it products. i support this report on the expansion of trade in information technology products because i believe that the expansion of ita plays a major role in the development of economies. it is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the establishment of the world trade organisation with strong potential to create jobs and boost gdp growth. it is important that more countries accede to the agreement in order to enable the eu to benefit fully from the agreement.
written. ‒ the first information technology agreement (ita) was concluded in singapore in 1996 and to date has 82 signatory states. the agreement commits each signatory to eliminate customs duties and to impose a zero duty rate on all information technology products covered by that agreement. the agreement covers some 200 tariff items, including computers, telephones, and raw materials. the agreement provides for the exchange of information and best practices between the parties on the implementation of the agreement and on the implementation of the agreement. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached to extend the list to 201 it products. the value of trade in this 201 product is estimated to be more than usd 1,3 billion per year. the ministers of the signatory countries concluded an agreement at the tenth wto ministerial conference in nairobi on 16 december 2015 in the form of a declaration on the extension of the ita, which contains deadlines for the implementation of the duty-free tariff. the value of products covered by that agreement exported from the eu amounts to eur 189 billion and this amount is expected to increase significantly after the elimination of customs duties. i support this recommendation because i believe that the agreement will result in lower prices for consumers, but also for manufacturers who are dependent on imported parts.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the enlargement of trade in information technology products because the enlargement of the ita covers issues covered by the common commercial policy and the products negotiated are key in a large part of the european union's exports, so significant effects on the value chain can be expected. the entry into force of the agreement will remove most of the low customs duties, representing 25% of the value of the customs duties. after three years, more than 60% of the duties will be phased out, and 30% will be phased out after seven years. the ita requires each participant to eliminate and bind to zero-tariff duties, on a most-favoured-nation basis, for all covered it products. the duty-free treatment has played an important role in the development and expansion of trade in the it sector during the 20 years of application of the ita.
written. - i support this report and the ban on a-pvp. the target group of users are young people and as such they suffer the most harm from the use of synthetic drugs. deaths have been reported across europe, and recently a teenager died in croatia in the middle of drinking. some of the compounds on the market are extremely potent and can cause effects such as high blood pressure, paranoia, psychosis, nausea, seizures, and in some cases death. the most serious consequences occur because the active substance is incorrectly distributed throughout the product during mixing and drying. as a result, some packaging is many times stronger and more harmful than normal. the common market and the abolition of borders have brought europe many benefits, but in this case that freedom has negative side effects. the member states cannot tackle the problem of 'legal drugs' on their own because they cannot keep track of the speed at which new compounds are emerging.
written. ‒ i am voting in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision to subject the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((pirolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (a-pirolidinovalorophenone, α-pvp) to control measures, as, based on a risk assessment, the acute toxicity of α-pvp may cause serious consequences for human health. the european union has also been involved in the development of a new drug strategy for the treatment of hiv/aids, which is based on the use of a new drug, α-pvp, which is a powerful psychostimulant substance imported from china and has so far been linked to 115 deaths and 191 cases of acute poisoning. i therefore support this report, which accepts the council's draft.
the role of the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the risk assessment of α-pvp has been taken over by the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. the chair of the scientific committee submitted the risk assessment report to the commission and the council on 27 november 2015. the results of the risk assessment established that α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant substance that has been detected in all member states of the european union and in neighbouring countries such as turkey and norway. so far, 191 cases of poisoning and 115 deaths have been recorded in eight member states. the use of α-pvp in the manufacture of foodstuffs is not recommended. animal studies have shown effects equivalent to those of other psychostimulants. i consider it extremely important to establish what adverse effects on human health α-pvp may cause. i therefore supported the report on the proposal for a council decision to subject the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((pirolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pirolidinovalorophenone, α-pvp) to control measures.
written. ‒ α-pvp is a new psychoactive substance that poses a major risk to human health and i have unreservedly supported this report on the subjecting of the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((pirolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pirolidinovalorofenone, α-pvp) to appropriate control measures. the fact that globalization is opening up new drug markets presents a major challenge. it is our duty to use all the tools at our disposal to fight for human lives. as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the council decision, a total of 115 deaths and 191 cases of acute poisoning were recorded in the eight member states where α-pvp was detected. it is imperative that legislation be enacted and enforced to bring this psychoactive substance under control. we must be aware of the fact that in 2012 alone 212 new psychoactive substances were discovered in europe and we are witnessing a growing trend. we must not stop at law enforcement, but must also help public health, develop and support national action plans to combat drugs and provide financial support from european funds to institutions that provide treatment for addicts. we need to be aware of the damage that new psychoactive substances have already done and design programs to reduce that damage.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to subject α-pvp to control measures and criminal sanctions in accordance with the 1971 united nations convention on psychoactive drugs. since not all member states have implemented the provisions of the united nations convention on psychoactive drugs into their legislation, it is necessary to provide for control measures at union level in order to facilitate judicial cooperation and the application of the law. the commission has also concluded that the use of α-pvp in the manufacture of the product concerned is not a serious threat to public health. i support all reasonable measures aimed at reducing the availability of psychoactive drugs in the european union.
written. ‒ a total of 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications have been recorded in eight member states where α-pvp has been detected. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction defines this psychoactive substance as a new psychotropic drug not controlled by the united nations convention on drugs, which may pose a public health threat. i supported the report by mr bonnici to subject the new psychoactive substance to control measures in all member states. the commission has also concluded that the use of α-pvp in the manufacture of the product concerned is not likely to lead to a significant increase in the risk of adverse effects on human health and the environment.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a council decision to subject the new psychoactive substance α-pvp to control measures because i believe that there is a high risk from the new substances and there is a need for control. the european parliament's decision to subject the new psychoactive substance α-pvp to control measures aims to ensure continuity of control measures on new substances in all member states. during the discussions in the european commission and the european council, it is emphasised that the new substances have caused a high number of deaths.
the european parliament, by its decision to subject the new psychoactive substance α-pvp to control measures, seeks to ensure continuity of control measures on new substances in all member states. during the debate in the european commission and the european council, it was pointed out that the new substances have caused a high number of deaths. i support the proposal for a council decision to subject the new psychoactive substance α-pvp to control measures, as i consider that there is a high risk from the new substance and there is a need for control.
written. ‒ i supported the subjecting of the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((pirolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pirolidinovalorophenone, α-pvp) to control measures. despite the limited scientific evidence available on α-pvp, the evidence and information on the health risks posed by that substance, as documented by its detection in fatalities and acute poisoning, provide sufficient grounds for subjecting α-pvp to control measures across the union. the commission has not found any evidence that the use of α-pvp in the union is a significantly higher proportion of the total consumption of the product concerned than the use of the same substance in the union. the commission has not found any evidence that the substance α-pvp is a substance of very high concern to the union industry.
written. ‒ i support this report on ratification, which indicates that it wants to ratify the protocol as soon as possible, but also calls on the council to reconsider its position. this creates a certain division between those member states which are ready to ratify the protocol immediately and those which are not. the council should adopt a single decision for all member states, as this creates a certain legal uncertainty, which prevents the swift and effective ratification of the protocol.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states, in the interest of the european union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with the exception of aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters, because the council and the commission must agree to respect the principle of conferral of union competence under article 5 (1) teu and the settled case-law that 'the court of justice must base its legal basis for community measures on objective factors subject to judicial review, in particular including the purpose and content of the measure'.
written. ‒ this interim report proposes to find a positive solution in cooperation with the council and the commission, which is in the interest of the union, as it is important to have a harmonised liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea. the rapporteur considers that it would not be appropriate for parliament to give its consent before the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of union law and the fundamental principle of eu competence allocation are guaranteed. this interim report is not an obstacle to the establishment of a uniform regime of liability, but represents an effort to ensure it in the most effective and equitable way. maritime transport is a global sector with cross-border impacts, so an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions to ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for damage caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea across the eu. this will ensure that sufficient funds are available to compensate victims of such accidents. that's why i endorsed this report.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996 (hns convention), as amended in 2010, is the last of the international maritime organization (imo) conventions on liability and compensation for damage caused by the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea that has not yet been ratified by all member states and has not entered into force to date. the objective of the proposed council decision is to authorise member states to ratify or accede, on behalf of the union, to the protocol to the 2010 hns convention, which aims to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents involving dangerous and noxious substances caused by maritime transport within the territory of the eu and to provide sufficient resources to compensate for losses suffered by natural, legal and public persons and to remedy the damage caused by such accidents. the application of this convention and the protocol is also of importance for croatian citizens in the light of the further strengthening of maritime transport in the adriatic, as it ensures adequate, prompt and effective compensation for all affected stakeholders for loss of or damage to property or the environment resulting from accidents related to the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
written. ‒ the objective of the 2010 convention on hazardous and noxious substances is to ensure accountability and adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property or the environment caused by the transport of dangerous and noxious substances by sea, through a specialised international compensation fund. i am in favour of ratifying and acceding to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances, which provides for the application of the 'polluter pays' principle and the 'precautionary principle' in order to take preventive measures in the event of potential damage to the environment, and therefore falls within the policy area of the union and its fundamental environmental principles. the swift ratification of the protocol is welcome, but it would be even better if the council reconsidered its position and took into account that it is not good for the eu, or its citizens, to create legal uncertainty and differences between the different legal regimes of the member states. i therefore call on the council to adopt a better decision which does not imply differences in the legal regulation of the different member states, especially since the loss or damage to persons, property or the environment caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea often has a cross-border element.
written. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 2010, decides on the strict liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful substances for any damage caused under these circumstances. the exemption from this liability arises from the obligation of the owner to have insurance to cover the costs. a fund has also been established to compensate for damage caused by the shipowners and insurers. there's no way to pay the victims right now if it goes beyond the owner's liability. the commission has also found that the provisions of the convention on the protection of the rights of the child are not applicable to the protection of children under the age of 18. since the transport of dangerous and harmful substances constitutes a large part of maritime traffic, an international regime would be more appropriate than a regional one to ensure rules on liability and compensation. i supported the report by the freedom mp on the creation of a coherent policy to deal with liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances establishes strict liability of the owner of a ship carrying hazardous and noxious substances for any damage caused by an incident related to the maritime transport of hazardous and noxious substances loaded on that ship. the term 'custodian' means any natural or legal person, entity or body that is the ultimate owner of a financial asset or a financial liability of a financial institution, or an entity or body that is the ultimate owner of a financial asset or a financial liability of a financial institution. furthermore, a special compensation fund has been established to pay compensation to all persons who suffer damage related to the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea in the event that those persons have not been able to obtain full and adequate compensation from the shipowner and his insurer. i support this report because i believe that it is necessary to ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in relation to accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances at sea throughout the eu and that for the maritime sector, as a global sector with cross-border impact, an international regime is more appropriate than a regional one.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996 (the 1996 hns convention), as well as the 2010 hns protocol, are the last of a series of conventions of the international maritime organisation relating to liability and compensation for damage caused by the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea that have not yet entered into force. the scope of the 1996 and 2010 hns conventions overlaps with directive 2004/35/ec as regards the liability of economic operators for professional activities, including maritime transport, which do not provide for compensation to victims. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for damage in relation to accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances at sea throughout the eu. in addition, it will ensure that sufficient funds are available to compensate victims of such accidents. i support this report because i believe that, in order to ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in relation to accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances at sea throughout the eu, an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances, with the exception of aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters, because i consider it extremely important to promote measures at international level to address regional or global environmental problems. i believe that the european union's environmental policy contributes to the preservation, protection and improvement of the quality of the environment, the protection of human health, and the prudent and rational use of natural resources. it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a single liability regime for environmental damage arising from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances and to ensure that sufficient funds are available to compensate victims of such accidents.
‒ voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states, in the interest of the european union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with regard to aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters, as i believe that more efforts are needed to ensure the integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of european union law in the most effective and fair manner and without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution (i.e. coastal communities, fishermen, etc.) and the maritime transport sector. there is a need to harmonise eu policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the latest in a series of international maritime organisation (imo) conventions relating to liability and compensation for damage caused by the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which includes both liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg) and has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted this international agreement to complement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specialised instrument. the 2010 hns convention establishes strict liability of the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and harmful substances for any damage caused by an incident related to the maritime transport of dangerous and harmful substances on board that ship. the hns convention aims to ensure accountability and adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss. the 1996 hns convention and the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have not entered into force. this report considers that it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a harmonised liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, which can only be achieved if the council and the commission give due consideration to parliament's recommendations. i believe that an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions to solve this problem. that's why i endorsed this report.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns convention) of 1996, as amended in 2010, is the latest in a series of international maritime organization (imo) conventions relating to liability and compensation for damage caused by the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. liability and compensation for damage arising from shipping activities are regulated at international level by a series of imo conventions which rely on strict liability of the shipowner, compulsory insurance to cover damage caused to third parties, the right of injured persons to seek compensation directly from the insurer, limitation of liability and, in the case of oil and dangerous and noxious substances, the use of a special compensation fund from which to pay damages if such damages exceed the limits of the shipowner's liability. the objective of the proposed council decision is linked to the danish exemption from the application of the aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters contained in the proposal for a protocol. for the above reasons, i have supported this decision.
written. ‒ i invite the council and the commission to consider the following recommendations: (a) to ensure that the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the union's common rules will not be adversely affected by the international obligations assumed by ratification of or accession to the convention, in accordance with the established case-law of the court; (b) to give greater attention in this regard to the overlap between the amended brussels i regulation and the convention in the part concerning the procedural rules applicable to claims and actions under the convention before the courts of the states parties; (c) to ensure that the possibility of conflict between the environmental liability directive and the convention is minimised by taking appropriate measures, to ensure that member states ratifying or acceding to the convention will fully respect the exclusion clause contained in article 7 (4) and (5) thereof and that the prohibition of any other ship subject to the convention is not exceeded by a claim made under article 5 of the convention. i agree with the rapporteur, mr pavel svoboda, who concludes that this interim report will give the council and the commission an additional opportunity to consider the recommendations made.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances establishes strict liability of the owner of a ship carrying hazardous and noxious substances for any damage caused by an incident related to the maritime transport of hazardous and noxious substances loaded on that ship. the term 'custodian' means any natural or legal person, entity or body that is the ultimate owner of a financial asset or a financial liability of a financial institution, or an entity or body that is the ultimate owner of a financial asset or a financial liability of a financial institution. furthermore, a special compensation fund has been established to pay compensation to all persons who suffer damage related to the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea in the event that those persons have not been able to obtain full and adequate compensation from the shipowner and his insurer. i support this report because i believe it is important to create uniform, comprehensive and effective common rules without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution (i.e. coastal communities, fishermen, etc.) and the maritime sector.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996 (the 1996 hns convention), as well as the 2010 hns protocol, are the last of a series of conventions of the international maritime organisation relating to liability and compensation for damage caused by the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea that have not yet entered into force. the 2010 hns convention, chapter iv, lays down rules on jurisdiction of courts and the recognition and enforcement of judgments, which overlap in scope with the rules laid down in the brussels i regulation. the hns convention contains a restrictive regime of jurisdiction, as opposed to the multiple jurisdictional bases available in the brussels i regulation. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for damage in relation to accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances at sea throughout the eu. this will ensure that sufficient funds are available to compensate victims of such accidents. i support this report because i believe that for the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in relation to accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances at sea throughout the eu, an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances with regard to aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns) of 2010 establishes strict liability of the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and noxious substances, in the event of any damage caused by an incident related to the carriage of dangerous and noxious substances by sea and by ship. i consider that the hns protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and noxious substances. i would also point out that sufficient funds will be made available to compensate victims of such accidents.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, as this gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. the process is technical in nature, i.e. to take the necessary legal steps to enable croatia to participate in the agreement, which naturally follows its accession to the eu. the european union is one of the philippines' main investors and fourth largest trading partner, and accordingly the funds allocated to development cooperation with that country have also been increased. taking into account the accession of the hr to the union is certainly necessary and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ in accordance with its act of accession, croatia undertakes to accede to international agreements signed or concluded by the european union and its member states by means of protocols to those agreements. the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, was signed in phnom penh on 11 july 2012. the agreement is currently in the process of ratification and has not yet entered into force. the negotiations with the republic of the philippines have been successfully concluded and the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has been signed, and i have therefore supported this recommendation.
‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines was signed in 2012 in phnom penh prior to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the commission notes that the agreement between the republic of croatia and the european union on the sale of electricity to the electricity grid in the republic of croatia was concluded on the basis of the agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia on the sale of electricity to the electricity grid in the republic of croatia. the commission has also received comments from the exporting producers in the philippines. croatia also has a significant number of its products to offer to the philippine market and for these reasons it is necessary to resolve all the bureaucratic difficulties that prevent croatian businesses from making profits on this large and growing market. as a croatian member of the european parliament, i understand the importance of cooperation with external markets and the countless opportunities it offers to croatian producers, and therefore i support this recommendation, stressing that taking into account the accession of croatia to the european union, the conditions for protecting croatian interests on the philippine market are being achieved and the conditions are being ensured that croatian citizens also feel the positive effects of this partnership after the final ratification of the agreement.
written. ‒ having regard to the draft council decision (13085/2014), and having regard to the draft protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union (13082/2014), i give my consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the philippines to ensure the accession of the last new member state, the republic of croatia.
written. ‒ under the treaty of accession to the eu, croatia has committed itself to accede to all international agreements signed by the european union and its member states. the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the philippines, of the other part, was signed on 11 july 2012. i have supported the report of the rapporteur brok on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the philippines to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ croatia, in accordance with its act of accession, undertakes to accede to the agreements signed by the european union and its member states by means of protocols to those agreements. the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines is in the process of ratification and has not yet entered into force, and the proposed protocol includes croatia as a contracting party to the agreement. i support this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
written. ‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, covers, inter alia, issues of current interest such as peace, migration, taxation, environment, energy, nature and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, and illicit trade. the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union as a direct consequence implies the incorporation of croatia into the framework agreement as one of the contracting parties. b i support the adoption of the protocol, as i consider that croatia's participation in the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation is a natural consequence of its accession to the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. given that the republic of croatia acceded to the union on 1 july 2013, in accordance with the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia will accede to agreements concluded or signed before its accession to the union by the member states of the european union and by the union with one or more third countries. the proposed protocol includes the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement and commits the european union to ensure the authentic croatian language version of the agreement.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, as it gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. the agreement is of mutual benefit because of the union's financial assistance to the philippines and because of the strategic position of the philippines for the eu. the eu is thus providing support to the philippines in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and is encouraging investment in technology and the internet to foster cultural and commercial exchanges between the islands of the philippine archipelago.
written. ‒ the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines strengthens bilateral relations and enhances the european union's role in the fight for democracy and human rights in southeast asia. this partnership and cooperation agreement strengthens cooperation in the fields of migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism and culture. it also helps to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, drug trafficking, organised crime and the fight against corruption. i supported this report because i believe that a stronger role for the european union in the philippines has a positive impact on their economic development, the strengthening of human rights, the fight against terrorism, economic growth and the development of trade.
written. ‒ given that the republic of the philippines is one of the 10 members of the association of southeast asian nations (asean), and the fact that the philippine economy is the fifth largest in the region and the second largest market in asean, it is important to establish good political relations that would be further enhanced by this framework partnership agreement. bilateral trade in goods and services between the european union and asean reached eur 235 billion in 2013 alone, so we need to see the philippines and other countries in the association as serious trading partners and provide ways to achieve a partnership that will benefit both sides. the philippines is the european union's sixth trading partner. the european union exported goods worth eur 6,8 billion in 2014 alone, while eu imports from the philippines amounted to eur 5,7 billion, and the european union is also the largest foreign investor in the philippines. given the inestimable importance and opportunities offered by cooperation with the philippines, i have supported this recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part.
written. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur, mr elmar brok, that the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation is an important step forward in strengthening the eu's influence in south-east asia, where the philippines is one of the eu's most important partners. trade, geostrategy, terrorism and security are key motives for the conclusion of this eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation, especially in view of china's growing assertiveness and territorial claims. on the other hand, it is important to stress the need for effective implementation and monitoring of human, labour and social rights, as well as effective measures to combat global warming.
written. ‒ the eu's partnership and cooperation negotiations with the philippines started in 2009 and the agreement was signed a year later, and is the first bilateral agreement with the philippines and replaces the current legal framework of the partnership agreement between the european economic community and the asean member states. the agreement represents a step towards strengthening bilateral relations and the eu's role in the south east asia region on the basis of common principles such as democracy and human rights. as it provides a basis for developing cooperation and creates an opportunity to create a political and economic framework between the eu and the philippines, i supported the recommendation of mr brok on the framework agreement.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the first bilateral agreement with the philippines between the european economic community and a member state of the association of southeast asian nations is the partnership and cooperation agreement with the philippines, which represents an important step towards strengthening bilateral relations and the eu's role in southeast asia. the same agreement is essential to create pathways for enhanced political, regional and global cooperation, and is based on shared values such as democracy and human rights. also, provisions on human rights, non-proliferation, counter-terrorism and the international criminal court are significant foreign policy commitments, all contained in the agreement. i believe that this agreement strengthens cooperation at sectoral level in a number of policy areas and also covers areas of current interest such as the peace process and disaster risk management. it also strengthens cooperation on environmental, tourism, cultural, energy, technology, maritime and air transport issues. furthermore, it is essential to strengthen cooperation through agreements and to tackle money laundering and terrorist financing, organised crime, corruption and illicit drugs. in the light of the above, i support this recommendation as i consider that this agreement extends the scope of action beyond the above to the economic and trade area.
written. ‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, covers, inter alia, issues of current interest such as peace, migration, taxation, environment, energy, nature and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, and illicit trade. the agreement extends the scope for mutual cooperation in the economic and trade field. the conclusion of the agreement is in line with the objective of establishing a comprehensive and coherent economic and political framework for relations between the member states of the union and the states of the association of southeast asian nations. i support the conclusion of the agreement, as i consider that the agreement itself contains an important development component and strict provisions on the protection of the financial interests of the european union.
written. ‒ as the philippines has been one of the fastest growing economies in the region in recent years and the european union is the philippines' main trading and investment partner, i supported the council decision to conclude the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. the philippines is one of the 10 members of the association of southeast asian nations (aesan) and the fifth largest economy in the region and second largest market in asean. i maintain that both sides aim to conclude an agreement covering a wide range of issues, including the elimination of tariffs and other barriers to trade, services and investment, access to public procurement markets and additional rules in the field of competition and protection of intellectual property rights. the future agreement would also include a comprehensive chapter to ensure that economic relations between the eu and the philippines are accompanied by environmental protection and social development.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, as a strategic partner on the south china sea freight route. the union's financial assistance to the philippines can certainly contribute to the launch of reforms aimed at establishing lasting peace, reducing poverty and social exclusion, promoting the rule of law, and security. it is certainly necessary to resolve the philippines' fundamental problems, such as the mindanao peace process and to establish intelligence sharing in order to strengthen the fight against international terrorism and extremism. in line with the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ the eu should continue to provide financial support and assistance to the philippines to reduce poverty, social exclusion, respect human rights and promote peace. the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 10000000000. the report praises the philippines' membership in the international counterterrorism coalition, but also highlights growing concern about the growing influence of isis in southeast asia. it also stresses its deep concern at the tensions in the south china sea and supports all steps leading to peace and cooperation. the philippines shall continue to improve the investment climate for foreign direct investment and increase transparency of business. i supported this report because i believe that close cooperation between the philippines and the european union is of paramount importance for the further economic and political growth of the philippines.
written. ‒ i support strengthening mutual cooperation and partnership with the philippines. the philippines is a good economic partner, but in opening up economic cooperation we must ensure that our values are respected and we must not overlook the weaknesses in respecting human rights in the philippines. i support all the praise for the philippine economy and its progress, but i believe that much more needs to be done to make philippine legislation more effective in protecting human rights. some improvements are evident, but the european union must continue to encourage further progress. our partnership should not be based on mutual exchange of goods and financial profit, but on mutual cooperation in exchanging ideas that will create a positive living climate for both the philippines and the european union. the passing of this resolution should have repercussions in all spheres of life. the european union must work with the philippines to do more to eradicate poverty, prevent human trafficking, and prosecute corruption. i also hope that the member states will take advantage of the opportunities offered by this agreement and that the european union will ensure that the benefits of this agreement are available to all its member states.
written. ‒ i believe that the eu should continue to provide financial support and capacity building assistance to the philippines for poverty reduction and social inclusion, respect for human rights and i call on member states to prevent vessels from calling at european ports whose working conditions violate labour rights and the principles set out in the eu charter of fundamental rights. i agree with the rapporteur, mr elmar brok, and express my deep concern about the tensions in the south china sea. i find it regrettable that, contrary to the 2002 declaration of conduct, several parties are claiming territory in the disputed waters. in view of the presence in european ports of a large number of vessels with a majority of filipino crew that do not fly the flag of the eu, and in view of the harsh and inhuman working conditions in which many of these seafarers live, i call on member states not to allow vessels to call at european ports whose working conditions violate labour rights and the principles set out in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i also demand that vessels not flying the flag of an eu country guarantee their crews working conditions that are in line with international laws and standards of the international labour organisation and the international maritime organisation.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr brock on the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. the eu is the fourth largest trading partner of the philippines and the fourth largest market for its exports, accounting for 11.56% of its total exports. the union is currently providing financial assistance to the philippines and we welcome continued cooperation to assist the philippines in its efforts to reduce poverty, maintain peace and security and ensure respect for human rights. it also calls on the philippine government to continue the fight against corruption.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that the eu should continue to provide assistance and financial support in capacity building for the philippines, firstly for poverty reduction, and secondly for promoting peace, social inclusion, security and judicial reform, and respect for human rights and the rule of law. i believe that we should continue to provide assistance to the philippines in the event of disasters, that is, in the implementation of effective policies to deal with climate change. also, a very worrying fact is that, because of the influence of isis and the spread of propaganda in local languages, there are already some extremists in the region who have pledged allegiance to isis. the eu is also the philippines' fourth largest trading partner and fourth largest export market, making it one of the philippines' main foreign investors and trading partners. the commission also found that the exporting producers in the prc were not able to obtain sufficient quantities of the product concerned from the prc to meet the requirements of the undertaking. i think the eu should also help the philippines because they are the third developing country most affected by climate change. the philippines is still reeling from the effects of the 2013 typhoon, which the un estimates has significantly exacerbated food insecurity, pushing an additional million people into poverty.
written. ‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, covers, inter alia, issues of current interest such as peace, migration, taxation, environment, energy, nature and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, and illicit trade. the european union should continue to provide financial support and capacity building assistance to the philippines for poverty reduction and social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform. i support the adoption of this resolution because i believe it encourages the philippine government to continue to strive for further progress in eradicating corruption and promoting human rights. the union and the member states should engage with the philippines to exchange intelligence, cooperate and support the government capacity building in the international fight against terrorism and extremism with regard to fundamental rights and the rule of law.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. the european union should continue to assist the philippines in building capacity to reduce poverty and should encourage the philippine government to continue to push for further progress in eradicating corruption and promoting human rights. i also believe that the european union and its member states should engage with the philippines as soon as possible to exchange intelligence, cooperate and support the government capacity building in the international fight against terrorism and extremism in terms of fundamental rights and the rule of law.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia, given that this is a country which, despite the political problems following the 'arab spring' and several terrorist incidents, which have primarily damaged the local tourist economy, has nonetheless remained stable and demonstrates vitality in consolidating a democratic political system. it is a country that meets the conditions for macro-financial assistance in terms of respect for democracy, human rights, and the rule of law. this is the second aid programme envisaged by the european commission, with eur 500 million to be allocated to the financial markets in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms. this supports reforms aimed at balancing the balance of payments and creating the necessary better investment climate.
written. ‒ tunisia's economic structure has been affected by the negative consequences of the internal unrest that followed the 2011 revolution. in addition to the negative consequences of the revolution, tunisia's instability was further caused by the weak international environment and the war in libya. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the tunisian authorities was compatible with the internal market. the commission notes that the financial crisis has led to a significant increase in the number of banks operating in tunisia. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of sampled union producers in the union. the union's macro-financial assistance (mfa) is intended to support tunisia's efforts to cope with economic and regional instability. the commission has also assessed the situation of tunisia in the light of the recent developments in the economic situation of the country. i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia.
written. ‒ tunisia is currently experiencing great difficulties and i think we have to accept this proposal which seeks to provide it with further macro-financial assistance. the european union and tunisia have good relations and are continuously strengthening them. despite the many challenges it faces, tunisia is managing to implement the democratic transition and reforms needed to modernise its economy and strengthen trade links. we must support him in this and that is why i support the proposal for this second programme of macro-financial assistance for tunisia totalling eur 500 million. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia, in particular through the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia. i agree with the proposal that the commission should manage the macro-financial assistance and that it should monitor and take care to prevent fraud and other irregularities. in view of the geopolitical environment and the social and political situation in which tunisia finds itself, i consider it important for the union to have a reliable partner in north africa and have therefore supported this proposal for a decision.
written. - tunisia has managed to consolidate its democratic transition. it has a constitution that protects rights and freedoms and a well-regulated judiciary and an independent media. it is governed by a broad-based coalition government formed after free and transparent elections, and is based on an enterprising and modern civil society, for which the tunisian quartet for national dialogue has rightly been awarded the nobel peace prize. but tunisia is going through a very difficult time right now. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of corruption in the country, the number of cases of corruption in the judiciary, the number of cases of corruption in the judiciary and the number of cases of corruption in the judiciary. in addition, the security and political context in the region is extremely volatile, particularly because of the border that the country shares with libya. it is very important that tunisia succeeds in this and prevents all those who want to destabilize it. the commission will continue to support the development of the tunisian economy and the development of the tunisian economy, in particular through the implementation of the eu's strategy for tunisia. at the same time, we must not forget the problem that has arisen with the duty-free import of olive oil. i welcome the commission's proposal and hope that this additional aid programme will be put into effect as soon as possible to help tunisia at this crucial moment.
written. ‒ since 2011, the eu has provided financial and operational assistance to tunisia in the process of implementing economic and political reforms. in 2015, tunisia was hit by terrorist attacks, which left repercussions on primary industries such as tourism and transport, but also disrupted the stabilization of the political environment and the security of the country. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be provided in the form of a global loan for a maximum amount of eur 500 million. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the light of the outcome of the union's macro-financial assistance programme. the commission has also provided a report on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ despite all the challenges facing it, tunisia continues to make progress, consolidating its democratic transition, implementing the reforms needed to modernise its economic structures and strengthening its relations with its partners, in particular the european union, with which it is currently negotiating a free trade agreement. the eu should demonstrate its solidarity and determination and support and support tunisia in its development through concrete action that directly benefits the people of that country. in august 2015, the european commission envisaged a second macro-financial assistance programme for tunisia of a total of eur 500 million to be granted in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia, in particular through the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia. i support this report because i believe that the eu should support the stabilisation of tunisia as its partner.
written. ‒ tunisia has made significant progress in consolidating its democratic transition, implementing the reforms needed to modernise its economic structures and strengthening relations with its partners, in particular the european union. but tunisia is also going through very difficult times right now. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of corruption in the country, the number of cases of corruption in the judiciary, the number of cases of corruption in the judiciary and the number of cases of corruption in the judiciary. macro-financial assistance is a european financial instrument that can be mobilised to support a third country in a crisis situation. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. the european commission has provided a macro-financial assistance programme for tunisia of a total amount of eur 500 million to be granted in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that europe must show solidarity and determination to support and sustain tunisia in its development by concrete action which directly benefits the people of that country.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia. i consider that tunisia, despite facing great difficulties due to terrorist attacks, is, thanks to the reforms implemented, fully complying with the political conditions necessary for the granting of macro-financial assistance, in particular with regard to respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. i believe that europe should show solidarity and determination to support tunisia in its development through concrete action that will directly benefit the people of that country. the commission has also provided a report on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market because i support the oecd rules and the commission's intentions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the application of this regulation. fair and efficient taxation and a uniform european tax system are the foundations of economic and monetary union and the single market, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ according to an oecd study, the aggressive tax planning of multinational companies results in budgetary losses of between $100 and $240 billion each year, representing between 4% and 10% of global corporate tax revenues. this means a huge loss of revenue for states and less opportunity for state investments to stimulate job creation, fight poverty and develop effective health systems for all. the european taxation system needs to be harmonised in order for economic and monetary union to be functional and for fair corporate taxation to be the basis of the single market. the report welcomes the commission's proposal to prevent tax avoidance by multinational companies, but considers that the proposed amendments should clarify this issue better. the main objective of the report is that companies pay their taxes where they make their profits. it also defines the conditions for establishing that a multinational enterprise is indeed established in a country. i supported the report on the proposal for a council directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. i believe that only in this way could a solid basis be created to prevent the further application of tax avoidance.
written. ‒ it is essential to establish as soon as possible a definitive set of rules against tax avoidance practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market. this proposal for a council directive and the accompanying report of the committee responsible attempt to do that. the establishment of a common definition of a permanent establishment and a definition of a transfer price, the development of a common method for calculating the effective tax rate, the presentation of a legislative proposal for a harmonised and common european tax identification number and a legislative proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base are good proposals and i support them. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the tax base of the member states, in particular the impact of the tax on the taxable income of taxable persons and the impact of the tax on the taxable income of taxable persons. it also calls for a ban on the use of shell companies, the introduction of a system of penalties and the establishment of a review and monitoring mechanism, which i fully support. the minority opinion and the narrow vote on the adoption of the report in the competent committee indicate shortcomings in the proposal for a directive that should be corrected before its adoption. however, i think the proposal for a directive is moving in the right direction and i have therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ according to an oecd study, the aggressive tax planning of multinational companies results in budgetary losses of up to usd 240 billion each year, representing up to 10% of global corporate tax revenues. this means, first and foremost, a huge loss of revenue for states and less opportunity for state investment to stimulate job creation, fight poverty and develop effective health systems for all. i believe that economic and monetary union must be built by harmonizing european taxation systems. i also agree with rapporteur hughes bayet that fair and effective corporate taxation must become the foundation of the single market. member states must agree on taxation if they are to achieve a reliable single market. in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the single market and the success of the capital markets union, a coordinated and harmonised approach to the implementation of tax systems is necessary. i welcome the commission's proposal as a positive step towards preventing tax avoidance in multinational companies. it is necessary to introduce precise and mandatory definitions of the conditions for certifying that a multinational enterprise is indeed established in a country. it's the only way to get them to pay their fair share of taxes. today, multinational corporations too often organize to funnel their profits into tax havens without paying taxes.
written. ‒ the aggressive tax planning of multinational companies results in annual losses in the budgets of governments of up to 10% of global corporate tax revenues. this represents a major loss of revenue for countries and less opportunity for public investment that should stimulate job creation, poverty reduction and the development of effective systems. in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the single market and the success of the capital markets union, a coordinated and harmonised approach to the implementation of tax systems is necessary. i supported the report by mr bayet which supports the commission's concrete proposal that a common consolidated corporate tax base will enable companies to use an 'all in one' system for filing tax returns and consolidating profits and losses they report to the union. the main objective of this report is to ensure that companies pay their taxes where they make their profits.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ every year, between $100 and $240 billion is lost to the budgets of governments around the world due to aggressive tax planning by multinational companies, which ultimately leads to large revenue losses for governments and less opportunity for government investment to boost job creation, fight poverty and develop effective health systems for all. sadly, more and more multinational corporations are organizing to funnel their profits into tax havens, while avoiding paying taxes. i support the report on rules against certain tax avoidance practices because i believe it is important to create a reliable single market which requires member states to agree on taxation. fair and efficient corporate taxation must become the basis of the single market, and economic and monetary union must be based on harmonised european taxation systems. furthermore, i believe that this report would move closer to the goal of all companies paying their taxes where they make their profits.
written. ‒ this council proposal would establish rules to prevent tax avoidance, which is essential for the functioning of the internal market. the commission notes that the tax rulings of the united kingdom and ireland are not binding on the united kingdom. taxpayers often go against the law, taking advantage of differences between national tax systems to reduce or avoid paying taxes. such practices lead to losses in government budgets, making it difficult for countries to invest in projects that will promote employment, fight poverty and build effective health systems for all. the construction of economic and monetary union must be achieved by harmonizing european taxation. effective taxation must become the cornerstone of the single market, and if we are to achieve the single market, member states must agree on taxation issues. i support the proposal for a directive because i believe it will limit the tax evasion of multinational companies and ensure that companies pay taxes where they make their profits.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on cia torture because i believe that respect for human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms should always be placed at the top of the scale of any policy, principle, report, law or rule. i certainly agree with the european parliament's decision strongly condemning the us central intelligence agency's (cia) extradition and secret detention programme, which involves multiple human rights violations, deprivation of liberty, abduction, torture and other forms of inhuman or degrading treatment.
written. ‒ this resolution recalls, first of all, the crucial importance, in the current situation of global insecurity and the threat of terrorism, of preserving the strategic nature of relations with the us and further strengthening respect for multilateralism, the rule of law and the settlement of mutual disputes through negotiations. it is essential that member states investigate allegations of the existence of alleged secret prisons on their territory where the cia holds prisoners in the framework of illegal programmes and prosecute those involved in these illegal operations. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu's detention and interrogation programme in the member states, including on the implementation of the eu's detention and interrogation programme in the member states. as there has not yet been a report on the investigation and prosecution of prisoners in the territory of some eu member states, i did not support this resolution.
written. ‒ i consider it important to stand up for the human rights of every human being and to ensure that all the fundamental principles that flow from those rights are respected. i am convinced that we need to make additional efforts to act towards calming the world's open crises and preventing them early enough so that no one's rights are violated. each of these crises has a different face and image, and to achieve the desired mitigation of the crisis, we need collective cooperation and dialogue based on an understanding of the real situation, rather than on insinuations that can lead us in the opposite direction from what we all strive for together. we must be aware of the fact that this is a very sensitive area and that decisions cannot be made on the basis of pretentious questions. if we want to achieve understanding and agreement on the issues that inevitably concern human rights, then we must focus our attention on adopting only those measures that will take into account the whole picture of the application of interrogation techniques prohibited under international law, and not concentrate on individual segments taken out of context.
written. ‒ there is no doubt that the fight against terrorism must include robust mechanisms to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms. despite the growing terrorist threat, and the fact that the work of the central intelligence agency has contributed to the punishment and prevention of a large number of terrorist activities around the world, i believe that the fight against terrorism must not depart from the fundamental obligations of international law. the united states has taken a constructive and critical approach to reviewing the cia's detention and interrogation program. i cannot therefore fully agree with the proposal for further measures regarding the european parliament resolution on the us senate report as it could serve to undermine cooperation in the common fight against terrorism. the global threat of terrorism imposes a common duty on the eu and all international actors to take decisive action to protect the security of citizens first. the eu should also be able to provide the us with a comprehensive and robust intelligence system, which would allow the us to effectively monitor and monitor the activities of the us intelligence community. in this respect, i agree with parliament's position that the eu, as a global leader in the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, should insist on exposing and condemning all behaviour that leads to the violation of human dignity.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european union is founded on a commitment to democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, and respect for human dignity and international law, not only in its internal policies but also in its external action. parliament strongly condemned the us central intelligence agency's (cia) programme of extradition and secret detention, which is a multiple human rights violation. the united states has a key role to play in the fight against terrorism, including in europe, and transatlantic counter-terrorism cooperation needs to be preserved for the common good of citizens on both sides of the atlantic. transatlantic cooperation, based on shared values such as the promotion of freedom and security, democracy and fundamental human rights, is and must remain a top priority in the european union's external relations. effective counter-terrorism measures and respect for human rights are not contradictory but complementary objectives that complement each other. i support the adoption of this resolution because i believe that in a time of increasing instability in the world, the relationship with the united states is of particular importance. such a relationship, based on common interests and values, needs to be further strengthened by respect for multilateralism and the international rule of law. countering terrorism must be consistent with our obligations under international law, in particular international human rights and humanitarian law, and such action will make our countries stronger and safer.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on space capabilities for european security and defence because today the union needs to work on solving its internal and external problems; from climate change, to poverty, migration and security threats. the commission should also be able to use the european border and coast guard agency to provide information on the situation of irregular migrants and to provide information on the situation of migrants and their families. the commission notes that the union's contribution to the union's external financing is limited to eur [0-5] billion. member states must adopt a common strategy and coordinated response to the continued development and support of the eu's security and defence policy.
written. ‒ space capabilities are important for european security and defence in situations ranging from everyday peaceful uses to armed conflicts. the european union must strengthen its role as a security provider in order to contribute to the fight against terrorism on its territory and abroad. the european space agency (esa) is the eu's principal agency for the development of space-related activities. the appropriateness of the management of financial resources is called for in view of the increased costs of the programme within the budget. it also calls for expanded cooperation with the north atlantic treaty organisation and the us, nato, the united nations and other neighbours and regional partners. i supported this report because i believe that the european union should invest as much as possible in further developing the european space industry and in expanding cooperation with partners in order to ensure regional security and contribute to the fight against terrorism.
written. ‒ i support the report on space capabilities for european security and defence because i believe that space capabilities and services have a significant role to play in the context of european security and defence. the current and future space capacities and services will provide member states and the eu as a whole with an increased dual-use and operational capability to implement the common security and defence policy and other eu policies in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environmental protection, climate policy, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian transport and aid. a holistic and integrated approach to the space sector at eu level is necessary. the space sector should be included in the framework of the new global strategy of the european union's foreign and security policy, taking into account the current development of the eu's dual-purpose space programmes and the need to further develop eu civil space programmes that can be used for civilian security and defence purposes.
written. ‒ the security situation in the union and beyond is increasingly dangerous and complex, marked by terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must adopt a common strategy and coordinated response. the union must strengthen its resilience by cooperating and coordinating with the north atlantic treaty organisation and the united states of america, which guarantee the security and stability of europe, and with the united nations, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, the african union and other neighbours and regional partners. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. i am convinced that current and future space capabilities and services will provide member states and the union with an increased dual-use operational capability to implement the common security and defence policy and other eu policies in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environmental protection, climate policy, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport. this is why i welcome the european parliament's decision and believe that the eu could play a role in creating a more reliable, resilient and responsive european space capability.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mp zdrojewski which stresses that space programmes have security and defence benefits and are technically linked to civil defence. the report warns of the strategic importance of independent access to space and the need for specifically targeted eu action. it also stresses the strategic importance of fostering innovation and space exploration for security and defence, and to this end, the process of disseminating information from satellites to users needs to be improved, including the construction of the necessary technological infrastructure. the report shall direct member states to be fully involved in the decision-making process in order to avoid excessive administrative costs and to ensure the coherence of the programme with strategic needs.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that current and future space capabilities will provide an increased dual-use operational capability for the implementation of the common security of the union and the member states. unfortunately, terrorist attacks and mass killings are the reasons for an increasingly dangerous and complex situation in the union and affect all member states. i think that the member states need to coordinate and have a common strategy to respond to the issue of terrorism. the eu must also strengthen its role as a provider of security on its territory and contribute to combating the challenges posed by terrorism in order to ensure stability. the development and maintenance of space capabilities for security and defence in europe requires effective cooperation and synergies between member states and with european and international institutions. furthermore, i believe that space policy is a fundamental dimension of the strategic autonomy that the eu must have in order to preserve its sensitive industrial and technological capabilities.
written. ‒ the security situation in the union and beyond is becoming increasingly complex and dangerous. terrorist attacks affect all countries, so they must adopt a common strategy and find a coordinated agreement. the union must strengthen its role as a recipient of security on its territory and abroad in order to guarantee stability in its neighbourhood and at global level. space policy is a fundamental dimension of the strategic autonomy that the eu must have in order to preserve its sensitive technological and industrial capabilities. space capabilities and services play an important role, inter alia, in the context of european security and defence. the current and future space capabilities and services will provide member states and the union with a dual operational capability to implement the common security and defence policy and other eu policies. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that national governments and the union need to improve access to space satellite communications, space situational awareness, precise navigation and earth observation and to guarantee europe's independence in space technologies.
written. ‒ space policy is a fundamental dimension of the strategic autonomy that the european union must have in order to preserve its sensitive technological industrial capabilities as well as its independent assessment capabilities. the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both inside and outside the union, terrorist attacks and mass killings affect all member states and therefore member states need to respond by adopting common strategies and coordinated contracts. i believe that the european union must strive to achieve the greatest possible autonomy at the space and military levels and strive to have its own instruments for establishing a defence union. however, this report calls for strengthening the union's security and defence policy rather than making concrete proposals for resolving conflicts. as i do not support the militarization of the union i have abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the development of the space market, given that the eu still lacks an integrated and coherent space policy, and i believe that space activities are extremely important for scientific and technical progress, innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, social cohesion, job creation and business. the eu space strategy should bring europe to the forefront of space technologies and services in global markets.
written. ‒ a key justification for eu intervention in the space sector includes the need to develop an independent european space with satellite infrastructure, to pool all the resources and experts from esa and the member states and to have the opportunity to benefit from all the satellite technologies and products that can help us achieve the europe 2020 goals. the launch of the european space policy in 2007 has given new impetus to the implementation of the two largest space programmes, copernicus (earth observation) and galileo (global navigation satellite system). the data generated by space technology can find a variety of commercial and institutional applications in many market segments, such as the market for navigation systems. in general, the demand for this data and information is high from the public sector, which wants to develop better services for the benefit of citizens, public administrations and companies. the sectors with the greatest potential for the development of commercial services are the agricultural sector (precision agriculture), insurance services and oil and gas exploration and exploitation activities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because it calls for the creation of conditions that should simplify the institutional environment for eu space activities with the aim of enabling greater participation of public and private users. one of the main components of the strategy is to develop a market for space services, applications and data exchange in order to maximise the socio-economic benefits of the eu space programmes. in supporting greater participation of regional and local authorities in a successful eu space policy, it is necessary to coordinate initiatives at local and national level in order to avoid the duplication of funding of almost the same projects by the commission and different member states, in such a way that the efforts of different stakeholders in the sector are directed towards a common goal through better cooperation and exchange of information. for example, european gnss data for increased safety and efficient use of intelligent traffic management systems are crucial at all levels. it is therefore important to ensure the compatibility of gpss with the galileo/egnos programme, in particular in the field of civil aviation and related critical infrastructure. a proactive eu industrial policy in the space technology sector is needed in response to large institutional markets around the world that are increasingly strategic and technologically influential. the competitiveness of european industry needs to be improved and the development of the space market can only help to do so.
written. ‒ i supported the oral question which stresses the strategic importance of fostering innovation as the main challenge to be addressed by the european union's space policy, and that the funds already invested in space under the financial programmes should bring economic benefits to the eu. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the expected development of the space market leads to an indirect increase in the number of jobs as the creation of one new job in the space industry results in the creation of up to five new jobs in other sectors.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that the future development of the eu space programmes should be user-oriented and driven by the needs of public, private and scientific users. i believe that the eu's space activities are of paramount importance for scientific and technical progress, industrial competitiveness, economic growth, social cohesion, etc. i believe that autonomous access to space is strategically important for the eu and that technologies developed in the context of space research are important for cross-fertilisation and other benefits for other policy areas. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment protection, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment.
written. ‒ the european union's space activities are of paramount importance for scientific and technical progress, innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, and the creation of new jobs and businesses. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. autonomous access to space is of strategic importance for the european union, as highly reliable and accurate position and time information is important for strengthening european autonomy. parliament urged the commission to adopt a comprehensive strategy to guarantee europe's leadership in space technologies and services, independent access to space and a level playing field for the european space industry. it is necessary to cooperate with the member states of the european space agency in order to create a properly integrated infrastructure system with appropriate levels of data security. i support this motion for a resolution on the development of the space market because i believe that space data and services can play a key role in enabling europe to lead in major technological trends such as smart cities, the internet marketplace, connected/autonomous vehicles and so on.
written. ‒ as the european union still lacks an integrated and coherent space policy, i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the development of the space market. i welcome the progress made under the two flagship space programmes, galileo and copernicus, and i believe that further synergies need to be encouraged. it is important to ensure the necessary technical standards to enable the use of space data and services and to support a greater participation of regional and local authorities in the successful space policy of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela because that country is currently experiencing major political, economic, social and humanitarian problems and political and social instability is increasing day by day. following the electoral crisis, the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers are not fully respected in venezuela. in addition, the humanitarian crisis is growing and causing increasing social tension due to the lack of basic necessities such as food and medicine. this proposal calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to present a plan to assist that country and to help the most vulnerable sections of society as soon as possible.
written. ‒ the motion for a resolution expresses concern at the deterioration of the situation in venezuela in the areas of democracy and human rights. the council's abuse of state power and disregard for the legal decisions of the newly elected national assembly are strongly condemned. it calls on the venezuelan government to act within the limits of democracy. it also calls for the establishment of an independent international commission of inquiry to determine the circumstances of the massacre in tumermore, where 28 miners were killed. the venezuelan authorities are requested to guarantee the safety of all citizens, especially political activists and journalists. the commission also expresses its deep concern at the increase in social tensions caused by the shortage of goods, food and medicine and calls for a peaceful solution to the situation based on dialogue between all parties. i supported the motion for a resolution because it provides humanitarian aid to the venezuelan people and seeks to improve the political and social situation in venezuela.
written. ‒ the political crisis in venezuela is increasingly affecting its citizens, as confirmed by reports of increasingly difficult access to basic necessities of life. it is the duty of the european union to respond in accordance with our values and capabilities and to make a clear commitment to respect for the rule of law in that important south american country with which europe has longstanding friendly political and economic relations. the recent events have severely affected the basic human rights of venezuelan citizens and plunged the venezuelan economy into a severe recession. this resolution is an expression of our concern and should encourage a calm. any further radicalization of the existing political conflict, but also the growing social tension caused by the lack of basic goods such as food and medicine can fuel violence and social unrest. that is why i join the calls for moderation in action by all members of venezuelan society to overcome the current crisis in the country. i want to tell the political elites in venezuela that they are responsible for the future of their people, and i give support to the citizens of venezuela so that in these difficult moments they feel that they are not alone and that each of us is doing everything necessary to normalize the overall life and political situation in their country as soon as possible.
written. ‒ to the political and economic crisis in venezuela we can add a humanitarian crisis and a lack of basic necessities of life. the data shows that a worker needs 18 times the minimum wage to buy the basic necessities for a week. grocery stores are struggling to find basic items such as flour, milk powder, bread, and diapers, and hospitals are short on medicines and staff. venezuela is heading for ruin, and it's a disturbing fact that 25,000 people die every year as victims of violence. i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution encouraging regional partners to initiate dialogue and understanding between the warring parties in the country, in order to ensure peace and stability and respect for fundamental human rights as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because i consider the current deterioration of the social, political and economic situation to be a matter of concern. i believe that the government of venezuela should take a constructive position to overcome the current difficult situation and, with the help of peaceful and democratic policies, resolve the situation. i also believe that the venezuelan authorities should guarantee and respect the constitutional right to peaceful protest and that opposition leaders should exercise their powers responsibly. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela to ensure the effective implementation of the measures taken by the government of venezuela. finally, i believe that this increasingly serious economic and political crisis as well as the growing tension over the lack of basic necessities such as food and medicine requires an urgent resolution and stabilization of the current situation, primarily by allowing humanitarian aid into the country in order to at least help the most vulnerable sections of society.
written. ‒ the european parliament is gravely concerned about the deterioration of the situation of democracy and human rights in venezuela. condemns the abuse of state powers, in particular by the state electoral commission and the judiciary, for misinterpreting and disregarding the decisions lawfully taken by the legislature, consisting of the national assembly. parliament called on the venezuelan government to respect the rule of law and the principle of the separation of powers, to act within the limits of democracy and to release unconditionally political prisoners who have been arbitrarily detained. the growing social tensions caused by the lack of basic goods such as food and medicine are fuelling violence and social unrest, and all members of venezuelan society must have the moderation to overcome the current crisis in the country through constitutional, peaceful and democratic solutions based on dialogue. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the fundamental priority is to reduce the high rate of impunity for crime, as this accelerates and encourages the growth of violence and insecurity in the country and to ensure respect for the existing legal system. the government of venezuela and the public authorities must respect the constitution and thereby facilitate, not impede, the functioning of the recognised legal mechanisms and procedures.
written. ‒ i welcome the decision of the court of justice of the european union because the commission has failed to fulfil its obligations on an issue of the utmost importance to the public health and well-being of our citizens. we have two major problems with endocrine disruptors. one is that they have a very negative effect on our health, affecting the human hormonal system, and the other is that we are surrounded by them in our daily lives, in our clothing, in the packaging of food and drink, in the plastics that we use in our daily lives. there are many theories about endocrine disruptors and the european commission's inaction, some of which are completely unrealistic. but if the commission ignores this court ruling, its credibility will be severely damaged. i therefore call on the european commission to respect its own regulations, the decision of the court of justice of the european union and finally adopt criteria for dealing with endocrine disruptors. they must be scientifically sound, feasible and, most importantly, serve the public health.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint motion for a resolution on endocrine disruptors: the state of play following the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 16 december 2015 because i support the judgment against the commission for failure to adopt the necessary delegated acts and for failure to comply with the obligations laid down in the treaties. in this context, i support the political commitment of the european commission to propose by the summer risk-based scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties. endocrine disruptors, even at low concentrations, have a serious impact on the hormonal system and are the cause of certain health problems such as reproductive disorders and reduced fertility. i therefore believe that we need to be particularly careful and have accurate scientific data when it comes to endocrine disruptors and i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
‒ the court of justice of the european union, in its judgment of 16 december 2015 in case t-521/14, held that the commission had a clear, precise and unconditional obligation to adopt delegated acts by 13 december 2013 to establish scientific criteria on the health effects of endocrine disruptors. the commission has not complied with its obligations under regulation (eu) no 528/2012 and has disregarded the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 16 december 2015 in case t-521/14. in doing so, it has failed to protect public health, animal health and the environment. until harmonised criteria are established, member states may adopt national criteria and prohibit harmful substances on their own, and at this stage, the protection of human and animal health and the environment could only be achieved through political action by the european parliament and the member states, as required by regulation (eu) no 528/2012. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. this resolution calls on the commission not to interfere with measures taken at national level to protect public health, animal health and the environment and not to initiate investigations or proceedings to establish infringements. that is why i supported the motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ endocrine disruptors have been declared a global threat by a unep and who report. the report mentions, inter alia, the high prevalence and increasing incidence of a number of endocrine disorders in humans and notes endocrine-related effects in wild animal species. in addition, there is emerging evidence of adverse reproductive effects (infertility, cancer, damage) from exposure to endocrine disruptors, and increasing evidence of the effects of these chemicals on thyroid and brain function, obesity and metabolism, and on insulin and glucose homeostasis. the general court of the european union, in its judgment of 16 december 2015, found that the commission had infringed eu law by failing to adopt delegated acts to establish scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties, and the court of justice of the european union, in its judgment, found that the commission had a clear, precise and unconditional obligation to adopt delegated acts in order to establish those scientific criteria by 13 december 2013 at the latest. as we are in 2016 and we still do not have established scientific criteria for determining endocrine disrupting properties, i supported the resolution because i believe that the european union is failing to ensure the safety of its citizens when approving substances for general consumption and specialised activities.
written. ‒ chemicals can have irreversible and adverse effects on humans. endocrine disruptors have been found to cause cancerous tumors, birth defects, and developmental and reproductive effects that may occur later in life. substances that have been scientifically proven to have such an effect on humans are not approved, nor should they be approved. in order to avoid such substances at all times, strict scientific criteria must be established to regulate exposure to such substances. i supported the report by mr gieseke in order to ensure that the criteria are defined and applied as quickly and effectively as possible.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the commission was to adopt delegated acts establishing scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products by 13 december 2013 at the latest. the commission has not yet adopted the delegated acts, which are now more than two and a half years overdue. endocrine disruptors have been declared a global threat and their effects have been observed to be associated with a number of human endocrine disorders. also, exposure to the same disruptors has been shown to have negative effects on the reproductive system in various forms of cancer, damage, infertility. i consider that the commission should question the regulatory balance established by the legislator between improving the internal market and protecting human and animal health. i support this joint motion for a resolution because i believe that the commission should respect its institutional obligations as well as its political obligation to propose and adopt scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties by the summer.
written. ‒ the european commission has not yet adopted delegated acts setting out the scientific criteria, which are now more than two and a half years late. article 5 of regulation (eu) no 528/2012 does not approve active substances considered to have endocrine disrupting properties with adverse effects on humans on the basis of scientific criteria to be established or on the basis of interim criteria. a report by the united nations environment programme (unep) and the world health organization (who) has declared endocrine disruptors to be a global threat. the same report mentions the increase in the incidence of a number of endocrine disorders in humans and also provides evidence of adverse effects on the reproductive system due to exposure to endocrine disruptors. the general court of the european union in its judgment of 16 december 2015 in case t-521/14 found that the commission had infringed european union law by failing to adopt delegated acts to establish scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties. i support this joint motion for a resolution and call on the european commission to take responsibility and to respect its institutional obligations as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union itself.
written. ‒ in accordance with article 5 of the regulation on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, active substances considered to have endocrine disrupting properties with adverse effects on humans based on scientific criteria are not approved. the commission has also identified a number of potential risks to the health of the union population, including the risk of the spread of endocrine disruptors, the risk of the spread of endocrine disruptors and the risk of the spread of endocrine disruptors. therefore, i consider that the commission should adopt scientific risk-based criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties in order to protect human health.
written. ‒i voted in favour of this objection because i believe that the current system for the authorisation of gmo food in the eu should be changed. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. for five years, member states have been unable to agree on whether to grant or refuse authorisation for gmo maize. in such a situation, the commission has the right under the existing rules to act itself as it deems necessary. while the decision is legal, it's not democratic. the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable. we have to accept the fact that most member states are against gmos, but some states want them.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize and genetically modified maize which is a combination of two or three of the modifications bt11, mir162, mir604 and ga21 and repealing decisions 2010/426/eu, 2011/893/eu, 2011/892/eu and 2011/894/eu as it calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision. i believe that, above all, consideration should be given to the possible consequences of gmos for human health and the impact of such products on the environment. i consider that the draft implementing decision of the commission should be consistent with the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and therefore i vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ in 2015, the production of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x tc1507 x 5307 x ga21 was authorised for food and feed purposes, for import and for processing. this decision is adopted in accordance with the applicable legal provisions, but without the support of the member states' opinions. therefore, i supported this objection.
written. ‒ i supported the objection to the authorisation of gmo maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 because, among other reasons, the new variety expresses a protein that causes tolerance to glyphosate herbicides, meaning that it achieves its market advantage only in combination with the use of the active substance glyphosate-based herbicide. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, acting as the world health organisation's cancer specialised agency, classified glyphosate as a substance likely to be carcinogenic to humans due to the increased risk of disease in farmers exposed to the pesticide. i consider that the said approval of the commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2003 on genetically modified food and feed and i request the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
‒ the european union has defined the rules of general principles relating to gmos in its regulation on genetically modified food which excludes all carcinogens used in gmos. in 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, which acts as the world health organization's specialized cancer agency, placed glyphosate in the carcinogenic category. accordingly, the commission decision to authorise the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified organisms in maize is contested. i support this objection under article 106 to have the commission withdraw its decision.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because mon-øøø21-9 maize expresses the cry1ab protein which provides protection against certain lepidopteran pests and the mepsps protein which causes tolerance to glyphosate herbicides. the international agency for research on cancer, which acts as the world health organization's cancer-specialized agency, has placed glyphosate in the category of substances that are likely to be carcinogenic to humans.
written. ‒ on 9 february 2009, syngenta france sas submitted to the competent authority of germany an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21 maize. on 5 july 2013, syngenta extended the scope of application to all sub-combinations of the single genetic modifications that include bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21 maize (sub-combinations), including bt11 × ga21, mir604 × ga21, bt11 × mir604 and bt11 × mir604 × ga21. mon-øøø21-9 maize expresses the cry1ab protein which provides protection against certain lepidopteran pests and the mepsps protein which causes tolerance to glyphosate herbicides. the international agency for research on cancer, which acts as the world health organization's cancer-specialized agency, has placed glyphosate in the category of substances that are likely to be carcinogenic to humans. the commission exceeded its powers in this case by adopting a decision to grant an authorisation without support in the form of an opinion of a committee of member states. i support the motion for a resolution as i consider that the commission decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003.
written. ‒ i supported the objection to the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize because i believe that this will protect human life and health. in addition, some member states expressly oppose the placing on the market of genetically modified products, and the european parliament has not given its consent to the placing on the market of such products. the commission should be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the genetically modified maize concerned.
written. ‒i voted in favour of this objection because i believe that the current system for the authorisation of gmos in the eu should be changed. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. for five years, member states have been unable to agree on whether or not to authorise the gmo carnation. in such a situation, the commission has the right under the existing rules to act itself as it deems necessary. while the decision is legal, it's not democratic. the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable. we have to accept the fact that most member states are against gmos, but some states want them.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations, as it calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision. i believe that, above all, consideration should be given to the possible consequences of gmos for human health and the impact of such products on the environment. in addition, the efsa gmo committee has not yet analysed the consequences of the consumption of genetically modified carnations for humans and i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ when genetically modified carnations are placed on the market for import, distribution and retail sale within the european union, it is stressed that it is not possible to estimate the consequences for humans. in the event of its spread to the environment through seeds or pollen, gm carnations will not be eradicated by conventional herbicides, but only by the application of more harmful herbicides and even diabetes medicines. the use of medicinal products for these purposes may lead to uncontrolled spread in the ecosystem. this can have adverse effects on biodiversity and cause chemical contamination of drinking water. once it loses its ornamental value, the gmo carnation will become waste that will be disposed of in the environment by composting. it is important to note that the environmental effects of such a procedure are still unknown. therefore, i supported this objection.
written. ‒ i supported the objection to the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4) for several reasons, including those related to the protection of biodiversity due to the uncontrolled spread of foot-and-mouth disease. the cross-pollination of dianthus spp. in nature is carried out by pollinating insects, especially lepidoptera (butterflies), which have long enough gill slits to reach the nectar at the base of the flower. since the gmo committee of efsa considers that the possible spread of the genetically modified carnation shd-27531-4 to wild dianthus species via insects of the order lepidoptera cannot be excluded, i can conclude that in this case the said approval of the commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and i ask the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision for this variety.
written. ‒ in march 2013 an application was submitted to the competent authorities of the netherlands for the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4). the scope of the notification covers the import, distribution and retail of cut flowers of genetically modified carnations in the union for ornamental purposes only. the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation does not meet the objective of protecting human health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms. this goes beyond the implementing powers set out in the directive. i therefore supported the resolution calling on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment and therefore exceeds the implementing powers. according to pan uk, some herbicides, such as sulphonylureas, sulfonamides and imidazolinones, are extremely toxic to plants, even in very low doses. sulphonylurea-based herbicides have replaced other herbicides that are more toxic to animals. experts warn that the widespread use of sulphonylureas could have a detrimental impact on the productivity of non-target crops and on the composition of natural plant communities and on the food chains of wild species. as sulphonylurea derivatives are often used as a second line treatment for type 2 diabetes and have been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular problems compared to other antidiabetic agents. i believe that the creation of a market for sulphonylurea-resistant plants will encourage the global use of this antidiabetic as a herbicide, and the use of a particular drug for a purpose outside the public health area leads to an uncontrolled spread of that drug in the ecosystem that can have a devastating global impact on biodiversity.
written. ‒ in march 2013, suntory holdings limited of osaka, japan submitted an application to the competent authorities in the netherlands to place genetically modified carnation on the market (reference c/nl/13/01). the scope of application of notification c/nl/13/01 covers the distribution and retail of cut flowers of genetically modified carnation shd-27531-4 in the european union for ornamental purposes only. the report of the european food safety authority (efsa) states that the efsa gmo panel is aware of the fact that some nations have a habit of deliberately consuming carnations for ornamental purposes, but has not analysed the possible consequences of deliberately consuming genetically modified carnations in humans. the commission has not analysed the environmental impact of the gm carnation, which after losing its ornamental value becomes waste that could be composted under circular economy principles. i support the motion for a resolution as i consider that the commission's decision does not meet the objective of health and environmental protection set out in directive 2001/18/ec and exceeds the implementing powers set out in that directive and i call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decisions.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution calling on the commission to withdraw its decision to place genetically modified carnations on the market. i believe that human health and the environment should be priorities in the decisions taken by the institutions of the european union. in addition, some member states of the european union have clearly expressed their opposition to the placing of genetically modified products on their market and i believe that each country has the right to decide on this issue. this also applies to genetically modified carnations.
mr president, the freedom of movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union, and in order for citizens to enjoy it fully, administrative barriers that make it difficult for them to live and work in other member states must be removed as much as possible. while i do not agree with the commission's efforts to tackle unemployment by promoting mobility, because this would condemn the less developed member states to ruin in the long term, i believe that we must make it as easy as possible for all those who make environmental change decisions. neither politics nor government has the right to stand in the way of an individual's important personal decisions. in this context, we should make the most of the potential of the e-government system and work towards a more efficient exchange of data between member states, which will in itself greatly facilitate these procedures and ensure full freedom of movement for citizens. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card on the basis of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. president, thank you very much for asking. that is why i said that we should eliminate the administrative problems, and that we should pay much more attention to the problems of those who want to leave the country, but also that we should pay much, much more attention to those who want to stay and give them reasons to stay in their member states.
mr president, i thank you for your good pronunciation, which is of course complicated, even for you italians. the presidency, the council and the european union have created a new freedom. freedom of thought is one of the most important freedoms we have and we need to welcome this effort by the commission to standardise key documents for every citizen. the european commission has recently launched a new initiative to improve the quality of the information society. we should really use the e-citizenship system to see the possibilities of documents that citizens have. so, let's start with these documents which are the key documents, but really let's not stop there, let's go on, let's have additional documents when we talk about our image, or status or employment, and let's get to what we need for citizenship. congratulations to the commission. we could have stopped there and negotiated it.
mr president, coherence, the legal protection of citizens, efficiency in the trial, consistency in the trial, of course, are all beautiful values and terms used in this report. however, i also want to express some reservations, because i am not sure that this reform will automatically bear the fruit we want and i am not sure that it will be welcomed everywhere. in fact, we can see from this debate that we have serious problems and serious objections. that's why i'm calling for reform, but reform in stages. this is a situation where we're going to have a certain amount of objection, we're going to have a situation where this report is going to have a lot of public criticism. i am in favour of reform, but if we gradually reform, and if we do and it is finally accepted that we have two new judges per member state, then certainly gender equality, we must not give up on this.
madam president, after the attacks in paris and the attack on zaventem, the main question i have been meeting with citizens in croatia and their question, is it possible that the police stopped terrorists, criminals, did not identify them and did not arrest them? is it possible that we don't have a high-quality exchange of judicial or police data within the european union? and the related question is whether it is possible and necessary for croatia to enter the schengen area at a time when there is no such automatic exchange of data? of course, as a man who advocates more europe, and always and everywhere more europe, because i believe that's what we need, i tried to explain that what is now coming is the creation of databases, the creation of automatic data exchange, including the freedom and privacy of citizens, that's the direction we are going and the way and the reason why croatia should and can enter the schengen area.
mr president, i have never before seen such a unified debate in this house, in this parliament, between all the members of parliament, all the clubs, from the extreme right to the extreme left. this is a clear signal to all of you, commissioner, minister, but also a clear message to the council and the commission. guys, let's get this job done as soon as possible! we're too late, too many jobs are lost, too many industries are lost, and not just the steel industry, but all of the industries that are related to the steel industry are coming into significant and major trouble. we need modern instruments, we do not need extreme protectionism, but we need modern instruments to protect our industry and thereby protect our jobs and our citizens.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank mr la via for this important question. the european union and its member states are strongly committed to the protection of whales. and in a broader sense i think you mention exactly why this is so important: the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. let me also be very clear about the position of the council. we do not approve of the current whaling activities of japan. up to this day, japan has failed to present sufficient evidence to justify its whaling activities with regard to its new research programme and a justification of lethal sampling, in particular, is far below standard. we have conveyed our serious concerns in view of the expert panel findings and the conclusions of the scientific committee, and our position has not changed since june 2015. these serious concerns will be expressed again in a meeting in october and we acknowledge that an effective conservation and management regime can only be established through joint efforts and by initiatives that promote mutual trust and cooperation between all the members of the international whaling commission. as already said, and i think you mentioned this very important point, at the international whaling commission meeting in september 2014, we regard the judgment delivered by the international court of justice in march 2014 concerning whaling in the antarctic as a definitive interpretation of the convention, and we believe that the principles of the icj judgment should be fully incorporated into the working practices, including by a revision of the current review system, annex b. in our view the judgment clarifies the legal framework for scientific whaling, particularly when it comes to assessing the necessity of having recourse to lethal methods of sampling where non-lethal alternatives exist. the judgment can also help to ensure an effective regulatory framework for international conservation and management. this brings all whaling operations under iwc control. the european union and its member states stand by iwc resolution 2014-5 adopted in 2014, according to which no further whaling permit should be granted without prior international review, including by the iwc scientific committee. we regret that japan had not consulted with its partners before engaging in such activities, which are not in line with the icj ruling. the presidency will ensure that the european union and its member states are well prepared for the upcoming meeting in october. it is also against this background that the european union and its member states joined the démarche led by new zealand to japan in december 2015 following the resumption of japan's whaling activities in the southern ocean.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the eu is fully committed to the conservation of all cetaceans and is equipped with environmental legislation to pursue this objective. commercial whaling is not allowed in member states’ waters or by ships under the jurisdiction of a member state. all whale species are protected from deliberate disturbance, capture or killing under the habitats directive. in addition, the introduction of cetaceans into, and export from, the eu for primarily commercial purposes is banned under our wildlife regulations. the eu has also clearly positioned itself against commercial whaling at the international whaling commission and strongly supports the moratorium on commercial whaling as an essential measure to protect whale stocks that have been decimated by decades and decades of unsustainable hunts. for many decades now japan has been conducting so-called scientific whaling under the special permit provided under the international convention on the regulation of whaling. the eu welcomed the 2014 landmark judgment delivered by the international court of justice ordering the interruption of the japanese research programme in the arctic, in the light of its scale, methods and limited scientific output. in december 2015, the eu and its member states joined new zealand, australia, the usa, mexico and south africa in a diplomatic démarche towards the japanese authorities against the decision to issue special permits under its new scientific whale research programme in the antarctic ocean for the hunting season 2015-2016. the eu and its member states do not believe that lethal sampling is required to satisfy the needs of a modern scientific research programme. in addition, we are deeply concerned by the fact that the new japanese programme has been launched without due recourse to the concerns expressed by the iwc scientific committee in line with the clear criteria identified by the icj defining whaling for the purpose of scientific research. regrettably our diplomatic initiative did not result in reconsideration of the decision by the government of japan. the issue of scientific whaling will be again on the agenda of the iwc at its next meeting, which will take place in slovenia in october. the eu will continue to take a strong position on this subject and to work with our international partners to press for decisions within the iwc that lead to better conservation of whales worldwide. the commission is not considering legal action against japan at this stage. we should try to resolve the issue through political dialogue as well as further discussions in the competent international forum, the iwc. the overall objective of the eu is to ensure an effective international regulatory framework for conservation and management, that currently is a significant improvement in the conservation status of whales in the long term and that brings all whaling operations under iwc control.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr. president, last year, at the same time, we were discussing the same issue respecting the conclusion of the international court of justice that the whaling that japan is conducting in the southern ocean cannot be considered whaling for scientific research purposes, as japan claims. japan has clearly not found a way like norway and iceland to make this exemption within the permissible framework of an agreement with its international partners that allowed it to continue the so-called controlled catch, but is abusing the good faith of the rest of the international community. japan itself has admitted that it has killed more than 300 whales this past whaling season, including 200 pregnant females, which will have far-reaching consequences for the population. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the protocol on the position of the united kingdom and ireland in respect of the area of freedom, security and justice, annexed to the treaty on european union. such disregard for international law calls into question its usefulness, but not only that. other national fleets could ask their national governments in australia and new zealand, or chile and the european union, if they could go there and do the same kind of research as japan does. i therefore ask the council and the commission to find an adequate solution to this case of non-respect of international law and to ban japan from whaling.
madam president, it would be best if we marked this world oceans day with a long, long silence in this house. because of all that we've done to the oceans in the last decades and because of all that unfortunately is still going to happen, and especially in this particular case when we can't talk about any scientific exploration of the oceans and whales, when we can't talk about preserving the tradition of the japanese in their way of hunting and later, using whales. it's all one big scam. this is a disgusting business which the european commission, the european union must try to stop by all the political and legal methods, but especially by the political methods at our disposal. it's a shame we're missing this opportunity, so many species are extinct, let's at least make sure whales don't go extinct in our oceans.
madam president, citizens rightly perceive the administration of the european union as an ancillary structure which, alongside national, regional and local administrations, represents only an additional cost. however, despite the popular view that additional levels of governance are superfluous and expensive, the union must have its own administration in order to function as a political and legal entity at all. this administration should indeed be, as the very title of this regulation says, open, efficient and independent, and i would add minimal. at all management levels, the need to change bulk and bone structures is very often disguised as efficiency gains. this is a trap to be avoided, for it is the overwhelming of administrative bodies and the accumulation of regulations that are the main cause of inefficiency. if we are to have good governance at eu level, it must be modern and minimal and coordinated with the governments of the member states. a strong and bulky administrative apparatus that serves as a preparation for taking on new responsibilities from the national level in an attempt to achieve federalist ambitions will never be open or effective.
madam president, we always have something to say. the president of the european council, and probably one of the most important people in croatia, is known as the greatest european enthusiast. i really want to stay. however, my experience of the last fifteen years in the european administration is that it is not very satisfactory, but rather very, very doubtful. the commission is also aware that the european parliament has adopted a number of legislative proposals on the subject. the use of european funds is particularly problematic in the context of cohesion policy, given the need to simplify the processes of achieving a more open, open, efficient and sustainable administration.
madam president, first of all, i'd like to thank mr tajani for keeping this issue on the agenda. this is not a new concept but something that is known both in the member states and in the union itself. i want to thank you again for continuing to work on this. the fact is that 24% of gdp is in the european union, that we are a strong and the largest economy in the world, but we still need economic diplomacy. i personally think that it should be in the function of foreign policy and that foreign policy cannot go without economic diplomacy. i therefore agree that the european union, the member states and companies, as well as the foreign and economic service, should be linked and coordinated. without this networking, we will not be able to maintain our position as the world's leading economy. of course, it is all for the good of the european citizens. i think that economic diplomacy should be internationalised, and that a great deal of emphasis should also be placed on small and mediumsized enterprises, which we keep talking about, because the middle class is clearly the dominant stratum in the european union and we must provide them with all the possible mechanisms. the question is, of course, what those mechanisms are, but there are many mechanisms that already exist in the member states and they need to be used to give full expression to smes and to keep the european economy as the number one economy in the world.
madam president, if europe and the european economy are to remain competitive and have growth opportunities, the internationalisation of our economy is unquestionably necessary, because of course, with the expansion of the world economy, europe's share is constantly decreasing. that is why i strongly support this initiative of european diplomacy and i call for synergy with the member states, with the diplomacy that the member states have in many countries, especially in the african, asian and south american continents, where we can certainly have a lot of input. i would like to connect this initiative with what we're constantly dealing with in this room of ours, which is the problem of the migrant crisis. with our strong economic diplomacy, i am sure, together with the member countries, we can also address this problem in a different way than we are addressing it. and finally, i would like to mention, yes, energy and industry are very important topics, but also tourism, which was mentioned. however, to make tourism even stronger we have to organize ourselves properly here in europe because we are not well organized now.
madam president, opening up new markets to our entrepreneurs and attracting investment to the european union is absolutely desirable and we must mobilise all our capacities to this end. member states already have their own models of economic diplomacy and i see nothing wrong with the eu bodies and representatives helping them to pursue their economic interests in foreign markets and attract foreign investment. but i do not think that coordination between member states or between member states and bodies of the european union in order to pursue economic interests should be institutionalised. there are significant differences between our countries, in their economic realities and ambitions. it is fairly certain that the eu's economic diplomacy would primarily benefit the more developed member states by focusing on exporting to world markets, even though we would all be funding it, and that is the path to new injustice and discontent.
madam president, i will not speak about the classic advantages and importance of railways and rail transport in the european union and the problems we face when we talk about the chinese presence within the european railway area, but i would like to highlight two problems. i would like to highlight the problem of cross-border rail connectivity in the european railway area and to highlight one concrete example. and a concrete example is the istrian branch of the croatian railways that ends in slovenia, which is a general problem. for 25 years, nobody has cared about these railways, and the potential for transporting passengers and for transporting goods is fantastic. another example is the problem of intermodal transport, which is of course extremely important so that when cargo arrives at a port, it can be transferred to the railway and then onwards. the port of rijeka will never be competitive until we solve the problem of the railway between rijeka and zagreb, but also rijeka and pivka, which is, of course, the problem of cooperation between croatia and slovenia.
written. ‒ i support this report on promoting free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. this regulation would enhance trust between member states with a view to strengthening regulation in the future and reducing the additional bureaucratic burden on european citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the presentation requirements for certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012 as freedom of movement and the internal market are one of the key values of the eu. however, the mobility of eu citizens faces administrative obstacles when submitting public documents to the authorities of another member state, and this problem should be addressed as soon as possible. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the measures taken. multilingual standard forms will also facilitate the free movement of people within the union and raise the level of equality of those citizens who reside in a member state of which they are not nationals and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the aim of this legislative act is to encourage the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal recognition of certain public documents in the european union. it does not cover the recognition of the content of authentic instruments in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in the area of family law. the mobility of union citizens is a reality, but some of them still encounter administrative obstacles when presenting public documents to the authorities of another member state. following interinstitutional negotiations, the co-legislators and the commission reached agreement on a compromise text. the regulation thus covers documents relating to civil status, documents relating to residence, nationality and criminal records. measures are also provided to facilitate the recognition of certified copies and translations by court interpreters. the most important component of the regulation is the introduction of multilingual standard forms for most public documents. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the format for the presentation of the public document in the member state concerned. in this way, mobility is greatly facilitated for european citizens, which is why i did not support the proposal to reject the council's position.
written. ‒ many citizens of the republic of croatia have difficulties in recognising the content of public documents and this is a major problem for them, given that mobility within the member states is increasing on a daily basis. citizens often encounter administrative obstacles when submitting public documents to the authorities of another country. as the objective and content of the proposed regulation on the promotion of the free movement of citizens is to reduce the costs of individuals and the related administrative burden by simplifying the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents in the european union, inter alia by providing for multilingual standard forms, i consider the proposed regulation to be a positive step in facilitating and encouraging the free movement of citizens within the european union. this regulation thus covers documents on civil status, as well as certain other documents that are often needed by citizens, such as those relating to residence, nationality and criminal records. for that reason, i supported its enactment. i would like to stress that i am disappointed that the scope of the regulation is limited mainly to civil status documents and not to documents on legal status and representation of companies and many other types of businesses. however, it is good that we have freed our citizens from the needless authentication of documents in other member states and from translation costs, and that this regulation will also make it easier to detect forged documents.
written. ‒ the mobility of union citizens is a reality. some 12 million citizens study, work or live in member states of which they are not nationals. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend this regulation by amending the annex to this regulation. the objective of this legislative act is therefore to encourage the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal recognition of certain public documents in the eu. it does not cover the recognition of the content of authentic instruments, in particular in order to safeguard the sovereignty of the member states in the area of family law. the regulation thus covers civil status documents, as well as certain other documents that are often needed by citizens, such as those relating to residence, nationality and criminal records. the most important component of the regulation is ultimately the introduction of multilingual standard forms for most public documents. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the format for the presentation of the public document in the member state concerned. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of documents referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. this makes mobility procedures much easier for european citizens. i move that the proposed text be approved.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal of ms delvaux, as the 65% increase in the number of cases before the general court between 2000 and 2010 requires a higher number of judges and i agree that the rotation system is the most acceptable solution guaranteeing each member state to appoint two judges of the court alternately. i welcome the possibility of adapting the rules and practices relating to the allocation of cases in order to create thematic synergies with a view to achieving consistency and quality of case law.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ some 12 million citizens study, work or live in member states of which they are not nationals. unfortunately, citizens, as well as eu businesses, who today exercise their right to free movement or enjoy the freedom of the internal market often encounter administrative obstacles when presenting public documents to the authorities of another member state, for example in cases of cross-border mobility. in order to promote the free movement of citizens, it is necessary to simplify the formal recognition of certain public debates in the european union. furthermore, it is important to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in the area of family law and therefore this legislation does not cover the recognition of the content of public documents. one of the most significant elements of the regulation is the introduction of multilingual standard forms for most public documents, which will make a significant contribution to simplification. i believe that the scope of administrative simplifications needs to be extended once the new way of working has been established in national administrations, and i therefore support the council's proposal.
written. ‒ the aim of this legislative act is to encourage the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal recognition of certain public documents in the european union. it does not cover the recognition of the content of authentic instruments, in particular in order to safeguard the sovereignty of the member states in the area of family law. the resolution covers all civil status documents, as well as some other documents that are often needed by citizens, such as those relating to residence, nationality, and criminal records. measures are also provided to facilitate the recognition of certified copies and translations by court interpreters. the simplified procedure is compensated by the possibility for the body receiving the document to request the authenticity of the document directly and by electronic means from the body issuing the document. the final version introduces multilingual standard forms for most public documents. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the format for the presentation of the public document in the member state concerned. i do not support the proposal for a recommendation for a second reading, as i consider that the council's position at first reading is sufficiently clear and well formulated.
written. - i support this report which is only a continuation of the reform of the court of justice. in parallel with the second step, namely the increase in the number of judges of the general court from 40 to 47, the seven-judge civil service tribunal should be abolished.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft regulation of the parliament and of the council conferring jurisdiction at first instance on the general court of the european union to rule on disputes between the union and its officials because i support the changes proposed by the fourth regulation reforming the court of justice. i consider it necessary to reduce the number of pending cases and to revise the structure of the court in order to make it more efficient and consistent, and in this context i support the three-step approach adopted. i also consider that this report contains certain technical amendments which can improve the legislation and i therefore support it.
written. ‒ this is the fourth regulation on the reform of the court of justice. the first regulation introduces various amendments concerning the composition and procedures of the court of justice and the general court, and the second regulation provides for the function of temporary judges at the tribunal. the third part of that reform was to increase the number of judges of the general court from 28 to 56 and thus to allow each member state to appoint two judges. this increase is conditional on the abolition of the civil service tribunal of the european union, i.e. the transfer of disputes concerning the civil service to the general court. this report contains technical amendments that may improve the legislation. the amendment provisions are made clearer and the part concerning the specialised courts is repealed in its entirety. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's proposal and considers that, in order to achieve consistency and quality of case law, more cases should be allocated to courts with a larger number of judges, where justified. i consider that this regulation aims to improve the functioning of the general court in eu civil service cases and i have therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the draft regulation on the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction to hear and determine at first instance disputes between the union and its officials. the proposed regulation is the fourth regulation concerning the reform of the court of justice. the first regulation introduces various amendments concerning the composition and procedures of the court of justice and the general court, and the second regulation provides for the function of temporary judges at the tribunal. the third part of that reform concerned the increase in the number of judges of the general court. the original plan was to increase the number of judges from 28 to 40. however, at the council's initiative, the co-legislators eventually agreed to increase the number of judges of the general court to 56, thus allowing each member state to appoint two judges. the court of justice shall be composed of a president, a vice-president and a president of the tribunal. this fourth regulation, in line with the requests put forward by the co-legislators (parliament and council), proposes to repeal the provisions relating to the civil service tribunal, together with a limited number of consequential amendments and transitional provisions. this will give croatia two judges and further enhance the work of the court. that is why i have supported this legislative resolution.
written. ‒ since the van gend en loos judgment, the european court of justice has been and remains one of the main engines of eu integration. in van gend en loos, the court defined the legal order of the european community as a new legal order which is different from international law, but also from the law of the member states. moreover, according to the court's now irrefutable view, the legal position of community law in the national legal systems of the member states is no longer controlled by the constitutions of the member states but is made an integral part of their legal order by the fact of membership of the european union. with the ever-increasing number of cases before the european court of justice, reforms are needed to keep this prestigious court functioning. at the council's initiative, the legislators agreed to increase the number of judges of the general court to 56, thus allowing each member state to appoint two judges. this increase is conditional on the abolition of the civil service tribunal of the european union, i.e. the transfer of disputes concerning the civil service to the general court. i welcome the decisions of the legal affairs committee and the constitutional affairs committee and support the transfer to the general court of jurisdiction to hear and determine at first instance cases in the area of the eu public service.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal of ms delvaux, as the 65% increase in the number of cases before the general court between 2000 and 2010 requires a higher number of judges and i agree that the rotation system is the most acceptable solution guaranteeing each member state to appoint two judges of the court alternately. i welcome the possibility of adapting the rules and practices relating to the allocation of cases in order to create thematic synergies with a view to achieving consistency and quality of case law.
written. ‒ i supported this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ on 28 march 2011, the court of justice of the european union submitted a proposal to amend the statute of the court of justice of the european union on the basis of articles 254 (1) and 281 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in 2009, such a proposal should be adopted for the first time in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. the legislative proposal submitted contains separate proposals for each of the three courts of the court of justice of the european union, and as regards the court of justice, the proposals mostly concern the establishment of the office of the vice-president of the court of justice and the amendment of the rules relating to the composition of the grand chamber and its mode of operation. the aim of this proposal is to implement the decision to transfer seven judges of the tribunal to the general court, by transferring the jurisdiction of the tribunal to the general court. i support this report on the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction to hear and determine at first instance disputes between the union and its officials.
written. ‒ this is the fourth resolution on the reform of the court of justice. the first resolution introduced various amendments concerning the composition and procedures of the court of justice and the general court, and the second provided for the function of temporary judges at the civil service tribunal of the european union. the third part of that reform was the most controversial, as it related to the increase in the number of judges of the general court to 56 and thus allowed each member state to appoint two judges. this increase is conditional on the abolition of the civil service tribunal of the european union, i.e. the transfer of disputes concerning the civil service to the general court. the resolution proposes to repeal the provisions relating to the civil service tribunal, together with a number of minor consequential amendments and transitional provisions. the amendment provisions are clearer and the part concerning the specialised courts is repealed in its entirety, as it is not needed until the specialised court is re-established. i support the adoption of this resolution because i consider it to be a logical continuation of the reforms undertaken by the court so far. the aim of achieving consistency and quality of case law is to allocate as many cases as possible to the courts with the largest number of judges, where justified by their importance.
written. - i abstained on this report. while i support increasing the efficiency of the court, i do not believe that this can be achieved simply by increasing the number of judges and thus the costs, without first analysing the impact and cost-effectiveness of such a move.
written. ‒ i support this question to the commission in relation to the regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. i consider this proposal to be an important step towards ensuring better governance and greater transparency of the eu institutions, and legal certainty for citizens. the creation of a set of rules will help to address the problem of citizens' lack of information, while also bringing the administration related to the institutions of the european union closer to them.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following the question for an oral answer (b8-0705/2016) pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union (2016/2610 ((rsp)) as it hereby invites the commission to consider the attached proposal for a regulation on an open, efficient and independent european administration and to submit its legislative proposal for a regulation. in particular, in its resolution of 15 january 2013, the ep called for a regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union, but despite the fact that the motion for a resolution was adopted by an overwhelming majority (572 votes in favour, 16 against and 12 abstentions) in plenary, the commission has not yet responded to parliament's request by submitting its proposal.
written. ‒ over the past years, the eu has created a large number of administrative procedures without taking into account the coherence of the overall system. the fact that the union does not have a single and comprehensive set of codified rules of administrative law makes it difficult for citizens to understand their rights and administrative procedures. the adoption of this resolution should make it easier for citizens and businesses to interact with the eu institutions in an efficient and timely manner to obtain clear and coherent information and to exercise their rights more quickly, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ all the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union must be at the service of all its citizens, protecting their interests and acting in a fully transparent, impartial and effective manner. the existing rules on the functioning of the european union's administration are not consolidated in a single document, and their development has led to contradictions and illogical interactions between them, and citizens face many difficulties in accessing information, understanding their rights and exercising them, which is unquestionably necessary to harmonise. the european parliament already called in a resolution in 2013 for the commission to adopt a legislative act to ensure an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union, but this has not been achieved to date and it is therefore necessary for the commission to include the adoption of a corresponding regulation in its work programme for 2017. consistent application of carefully crafted and thought-out law must be made available to all citizens, administrative procedures must be harmonized, and administration must be swift and effective. citizens must understand their rights and obligations, which means that administrative acts of the european union must be drafted in a simple and understandable way so that no one is prevented from exercising the right guaranteed. i supported this resolution on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union because i believe that the institutions of the european union must act in a more coordinated and efficient manner to serve and benefit their citizens.
written. ‒ with the development of the european union's competences, citizens are increasingly coming into contact with the union's institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, without their procedural rights being adequately protected. the fact is that over the years the union has developed a large number of sectoral administrative procedures, both in the form of binding provisions and in the form of non-binding legislation, without necessarily taking into account the overall coherence of that system. this complex diversity of procedures has caused deficiencies and inconsistencies in those procedures. in order to facilitate the exercise of the right to an effective remedy, the union administration should indicate in its administrative acts the remedies available to parties whose rights and interests are affected by those acts. in addition to the possibility of initiating legal proceedings or lodging a complaint with the european ombudsman, a party should have the right to request an administrative review and should be informed of the procedure and time limit for lodging such a request. in order to achieve overall consistency in the functioning of the union administration, administrative acts of general application should be aligned with the principles of good governance set out in this regulation, while in order to achieve overall consistency in the functioning of the union administration, administrative acts of general application should be aligned with the principles of good governance set out in this regulation. i therefore support the text of the resolution and hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i support the question of the mep for freedom, because it emphasises that the eu administration should be efficient, professional and independent primarily from political influence and that the principles of transparency and openness should be followed and every citizen should be able to exercise his rights. this question is a reminder that the authorities and institutions should deal impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time with the case of any individual.
written. ‒ eu citizens are increasingly coming into contact with the union's institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, without their procedural rights being adequately protected. it is therefore necessary to ensure that procedural rights and obligations are always appropriately established, developed and respected. citizens have a right to expect a high degree of transparency, efficiency, speed of implementation and responsiveness from the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. furthermore, eu citizens have the right to adequate information on the possibility of taking further steps in this regard, and existing rules and principles of good administration are not available in one place, but are dispersed and can be found in a number of different sources, ranging from primary and secondary law to case law of the court of justice of the european union, non-binding law and unilateral obligations of the union institutions. as the rules under administrative law in the eu are not harmonised, comprehensive and codified, citizens encounter difficulties in understanding their administrative rights under eu law. in view of the above, i support this report.
written. ‒ with the development of the competences of the european union, citizens are increasingly coming into contact with the union's institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, and it is necessary to ensure that procedural rights and obligations are always properly defined and developed and respected. existing rules and principles of good governance are not concentrated in one place but can be found in a number of different sources. the lack of harmonised and comprehensive rules in the union's administrative law framework has led citizens to encounter difficulties in understanding their administrative rights under eu law. the regulation should apply only to union administrations and not to member state administrations. the right to good administration requires that the union administration adopt acts in accordance with administrative procedures which guarantee impartiality, fairness and timeliness. i support the proposal for this regulation because i believe that citizens have a right to expect a high degree of transparency, efficiency, speed of implementation and responsiveness from the union administration. the effective administration of the union is of great importance and of public interest. properly structured and consistent administrative data support effective administration and the proper implementation of the right to good administration guaranteed as a general principle of union law and by article 41 of the charter.
written. ‒ i support this report on the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry. the commission has also identified a number of other areas where the union rail supply industry needs to improve its competitiveness, such as the development of the rail freight sector, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight industry, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, the development of the rail freight market, and the development of the rail freight market. i believe that there is a need for rapid action to strengthen industry, to stimulate research and innovation in rail transport, to train the workforce, to strengthen export potential, etc.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled after the question for an oral answer (b8-0704/2016) pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on the competitiveness of the european railway supply industry (2015/2887 ((rsp)) as it is a sector of major importance to the european economy, the labour market and the high potential for technological and industrial development. the eu needs to take seriously the protection and development of this sector, given that competition from outside europe is also an unfair way of gaining competitive advantages. the commission should continue to develop the union's railway infrastructure and its infrastructure management system, including the development of the railway infrastructure and the development of the railway infrastructure. it is particularly important where this is the case to link cross-border business administratively, technically and functionally. the commission should monitor non-european investments both in terms of unfair competition and in terms of compliance with european legislation and standards.
written. ‒ the european rail supply industry is of strategic importance for industrial growth, employment, innovation and the transition to sustainable development. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council [16]. the rail sector directly employs over 1 million people and indirectly 1,2 million, clearly indicating the importance of the rail supply industry for european industry growth, jobs and innovation, and the fact that the sector contributes to the reindustrialisation target by 20%. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and on the environment in the member states. the union's contribution to the union's climate action programme is estimated at eur 750000000. the commission should also be able to use the existing union funding to support the development of the railway sector. this resolution underlines the importance of the successful use of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) as one of the tools to mobilise private capital for the railway sector, which is why i supported the resolution.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because i consider that the lack of available funding is one of the main challenges for smes in the railway supply industry. the cosme programme and the structural funds have the potential to deliver greater added value to the programmes they finance, in particular when it comes to the involvement of smes. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market on the basis of the criteria set out in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i would like to stress the need for a comprehensive, efficient and harmonised implementation of the regulation on the european rail network for competitive freight transport. the full application of that regulation will ultimately benefit both passengers and industry. the increased interoperability of rail transport and the stronger role of the european railway agency will facilitate the harmonisation of the rail network, which can significantly reduce the costs of development, approval of rolling stock and rolling stock, all linked to the recently adopted european rail traffic management system. the commission should also be able to use the resources of the european railway agency to support the implementation of the new and extended tasks of the agency.
the european rail supply industry, which includes the manufacture of locomotives and railway vehicles, track-related equipment, electrification, signalling and telecommunications, and maintenance and parts replacement services, and which includes a number of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also the leading companies in the industry, employs 400 000 people, invests 2,7% of its annual turnover in research and development and represents 46% of the world market for the rail supply industry. the rail sector in general, including business and infrastructure, directly employs over 1 million people and indirectly 1,2 million. the commission notes that the railway supply industry is a key industry in the union and that the union industry is a key player in the union market. it is therefore necessary to mobilise the various eu funding instruments, to explore and exploit additional funding opportunities for shift2rail, and to seek synergies between the various eu funds and with private investments. in addition to investing in innovation, maintenance and modernisation of existing railway equipment should not be neglected. i therefore support the text of the resolution adopted and hope that the commission will respond to the requests made shortly.
written. ‒ the oral question highlights the strategic economic importance of the european rail supply industry, which employs 400 000 europeans. the rail supply industry has great potential for growth, which will result in increased employment and innovation and is the best solution for the transition to sustainable mobility. at the moment, competitors from third countries receiving state aid are threatening european industry with a sudden expansion of their market. the establishment of the 'shift 2 rail' joint technology initiative should be accelerated given the speed of development in other countries. i supported the oral question with the aim of developing and strengthening the european rail supply industry.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
the european rail supply industry comprises the manufacture of locomotives and railway vehicles, track-related equipment, electrification, signalling and telecommunications, and maintenance and parts replacement services. the industry includes a number of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as leading companies, and employs some 400 000 people. the european rail supply industry invests 2,7 per cent of its annual turnover in research and development and represents 46 per cent of the world market for rail supply. the railway sector in general employs over 1 million people directly and 1.2 million indirectly. the commission notes that the union industry is not only active in the railway sector, but also in the supply of electricity and gas to the railway network. the european union is largely open to competitors from third countries. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to benefit from the exemption from the anti-dumping duty imposed by the basic regulation. i support this report because i believe that fair and equal conditions of competition in the world market and reciprocal market access are needed to eliminate the risk of job losses and to protect industrial knowledge in europe.
written. ‒ the european rail supply industry, which includes many small and medium-sized enterprises, employs 400 000 people. this industry is one of the key ones for european competitiveness and innovation. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the transition to rail and other forms of sustainable, electrified transport on the transport sector. the establishment of a single european railway area and the production of modern rail and tram lines are necessary to maintain the dominance of the european rail supply industry on a global scale. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment in the union. efforts should be made to promote lifelong learning. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that the guidelines set out in the resolution are well formulated and ensure better conditions on the european market for suppliers and support for smes. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution because i believe we must be aware of all the benefits, but also the threats to our economy as a whole, and thus to the railway supply system. i particularly support promoting the inclusion of smes in this system, because smes are the backbone of the european economy. therefore, if we want to accelerate the growth of the european economy, it is essential to give smes the maximum number of opportunities to market their products and services.
mr president, we need a new interinstitutional agreement. that is perfectly clear to everyone in this room, but i also believe in all the institutions of the european union and all the key people of the european union. these are new times, my dear commissioner. these are new times when citizens are asking us and you for openness, for a different kind of governance than the one we were all used to in some ways in previous decades. we need an open public administration that will enable us, the members of parliament and therefore the citizens of the european union, to have access to quality, truthful and verified information at all times. everything else will not be good for the european union. if we hide, it will not be good for the european union. we have many examples of this. i'll take the ttip. we know very well here in this chamber, representatives primarily from the south of the european union, that we will not vote for ttip unless the producers of agricultural products, protected agricultural products, are protected. you, mr commissioner, as a distinguished man from greece, know very well that greek farmers cannot accept that feta cheese is produced in the united states of america, any more than italian producers of gorgonzola or french producers of roquefort can, unless i now enter other agricultural products. it's just one detail of a big deal. we have many agreements, many details in each agreement, and you accept that we as parliament, if nothing else the majority in this parliament, will be your allies, that we will be your allies with the council because only in this way, through honest dialogue between us, will we be able to successfully lead the european union. otherwise it won't be good.
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr president, i agree with you, and i also said just now that i would like to see these agreements, which have so far been generally mentioned by the commission during the debate on wednesday, take a more concrete form so that we can discuss them here in a very substantive way, because i myself feel that this will be a strong and controversial topic for my constituents in the czech republic. so i agree with you.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you very much, mr. kelly, for accepting my blue card. i would like to ask you this at the end of what you said about ttip. do you agree with me that actually more publicity, more information about ttip in the public, even if it was positions, positions, would be better for the ultimate success of the negotiations than this way of being hidden, even from us representatives, in the complicated process of getting information?
mr president, international agreements are a very important instrument of the european union's overall policy, because they strengthen economic cooperation, but also strengthen the european union's role in the world, in terms of strengthening democracy in the world and responding to crises, especially those affecting the european union. the european union's impact on the crisis is much smaller than its economic and financial contribution in various countries, including various international organisations. on the other hand, the role of the european parliament is important, because it brings about a strengthening of the democratic process and a strengthening of citizens' involvement and understanding of what the european parliament and the european institutions are doing, and this certainly increases the quality of international agreements. i therefore fully support the initiative of the libe committee and in particular the creation of a permanent mechanism to involve the european parliament, not only in adopting, in informing, but in involving it in the whole process, in taking a more active part in the conclusion of an international treaty. mr. president, your football team has broken up. you got seven representatives here, you can barely put together a handball team without replacements.
mr. president, as has been said, the conflict and instability in the congo is largely linked to the struggle for the vast mineral wealth that this country has. the very mineral resources that should have made the congolese people rich, what should have been salvation, have become the curse of the land. more than 63% of the congolese population lives below the poverty line, about 43% of children under the age of 5 are chronically malnourished. i therefore take this opportunity to welcome the eu regulatory process for establishing a mandatory certification system for responsible exporters of tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold originating from conflict-affected areas, and for seeking to break the link between conflict and illicit mineral exploitation, as a key element in ensuring peace, sustainable development and stability. but it's not just the struggle for minerals that's a source of conflict, but there are also weak institutions, corruption, lack of good governance at the forefront. that's why it's important that he doesn't manipulate and delay the presidential election in the congo. i therefore also welcome the fact that the national indicative programme for congo under the 11th european development fund focuses precisely on strengthening good governance, the rule of law, including judicial, police and military reform, and i call for the same strategy to be applied to other african countries where the direct link between corruption and the democratic deficit as the main cause of poverty and instability may not be as obvious as in congo, but it certainly exists.
madam president, unfortunately, the democratic republic of congo is one of the best examples of when wealth becomes a curse, when the wealth that a country has does not reach its citizens but remains confined to the political elite, to that narrow circle of people who manage the wealth of that country. so i want to make it absolutely clear that in this case we need to do at least two things. true, this is the third resolution we've discussed with some results already achieved, but we need to do two things. the hague court should make clear decisions as it did recently because it is a great way for some things to finally be finished. i speak with some experience of the areas of the former yugoslavia where wars were fought and where criminals ended up in the hague court. and secondly, we should punish those multinational companies, especially european ones, that continue to violate those regulations that we have put in place, which is not to use minerals and mineral resources from areas that are in conflict.
madam president, there has been a terrifying series of terrorist attacks in paris, orlando, brussels. we can count a lot of cities in the western part of european civilization, we can count in many other cities and countries in the middle east and elsewhere. i would, however, reverse the story. yes, we need intelligence, we need to prevent scary things from happening online, we need to do a lot of repressive stuff, but i'm referring to hundreds, thousands, hundreds of thousands of great examples of tolerance, great examples of people living together, who have taken in immigrants, religious communities living together, linguistic communities living together. we have some fantastic examples. let's show it! let us show that and lead the european union's policy in that way.
madam president, i would like to start by congratulating my colleagues who, after eight trialogue meetings, have succeeded in reaching a common agreement and agreeing on multiannual plans for cod, herring and sprat fishing in the baltic sea. and that's a good example, that's a good way. the baltic is a closed sea and we need to have multi-year plans. but i want to stress the urgent need for a similar multiannual plan to catch the various fish biomass in the adriatic sea as soon as possible. some said that certain fisheries in the baltic should be banned, that this was what the scientific community was saying. it may already be too late for some fish species in the adriatic. please, let's go as a committee, as representatives, let's start guarding the adriatic sea.
madam president, this case well illustrates the delicate position of the european union in global diplomatic, military and trade relations. we are a key partner of the united states and because of that we have enjoyed certain privileges for many years, even decades, but that partnership can have negative sides as in the case of our companies doing business in iran at a time when the us has not yet fully lifted sanctions on that country. some of my colleagues will use this to question our partnership with america, and i think that's wrong. this is the situation in which the european union must build a new position as a strong, independent global actor, trusted by its american partners and adding the necessary goodwill and credibility to them in the eyes of the eastern powers. the intertwining of european and american values and interests is a constant that makes no sense to deny, but that does not mean that europe cannot play a more constructive role and in certain cases be the one to set the pace and determine the direction of western policy.
madam president, when i visited iran the other day, the sanctions were still in place, but i was convinced of how much the iranian economy cares about cooperation with the european economy, how much the iranian economy is able to provide many opportunities for investment in the european economy. and that is why i am convinced that this situation we are in now is nothing more than a game with the european union by our american friends. this just shows the event around boeing and the sale of boeing, although airbus also had the opportunity to do a good job, but it's not going to do it. so i say we have two situations here: we have an economically interesting situation for the european union and a politically interesting situation for the european union. let's take advantage of both situations because they work in our favor.
madam president, finally good news for as many as 16 million citizens of the european union. indeed, legal uncertainty has persisted for too long for so many citizens who have registered partnerships or are married couples from different countries. it is unacceptable that ten other member states, ten countries of the european union, do not accept this proposal from the commission and our rapporteur, mr cavada. it's unacceptable because despite the fact that love is the most beautiful thing in the world and despite what i like to say love has no alternative, still there are divorces, accidents, people die and we need to provide legal certainty to such citizens. we have no other choice because if we do not, i do not know what values we will ultimately build the european union on.
madam president, teachers were once one of the mainstays of society, valued for their important role in passing knowledge from generation to generation. today, unfortunately, the public education system too often treats them as mere bureaucratic red tape and kills their motivation and creativity. some member states, including croatia, give priority to satisfying form at the expense of quality. high youth unemployment rates should not surprise us, then, because the education system shapes youth according to political decisions rather than the needs of modern society and the labor market. i am glad that the rapporteur recognises these problems and offers some quality solutions. it is very important to improve the position of teachers within the system and society in general and to facilitate their acquisition of new competences, especially in the field of communication and information technologies, so that our children in the future have the best education and are globally competitive.
madam president, i would like to highlight three areas from this framework for european cooperation in education and training. the first is the issue of youth mobility and the possibility of exchanging experiences through various programmes. there is certainly one excellent programme, but i would like to highlight another eurodyssey which is perhaps a little less well known but has produced excellent results, where young people, thanks to the role that local and regional communities play in the european union, are indeed able to exchange experience and new knowledge and thus to gain better and easier employment in the economy. the second thing i want to highlight is the role of regional and local communities. especially local communities who often run schools and educational institutions and there is of course the important contact that they then have directly with the parents. and the last thing that will be perhaps the most important issue is the education of the children of migrants and of the migrants themselves, but especially the children of migrants, so that we can integrate them into society as well so that in 20, 30 or 40 years, we don't have even bigger problems than we have today.
written. education and training play an important role in developing civic virtues and strengthening the democratic principles on which the eu is founded and should not be focused solely on meeting labour market needs. increasing access to lifelong learning can open up new opportunities for the low-skilled and unemployed, people with special needs, the elderly and migrants. since not all member states face the same level of problems, the proposed education and training recommendations should be flexible and take into account national, economic, social and other factors, with the aim of improving the situation across the eu. member states must improve links between higher education and vocational education and training, research institutions and the business sector, ensure the involvement of social partners and civil society, in order to enhance the impact of et 2020 and the importance of learning systems for enhancing europe's innovation capacity. the potential of digitalisation and information and communication technologies needs to be better exploited to improve the quality and accessibility of learning and, in this regard, the exchange of best practices and enhanced cross-border cooperation should be encouraged. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's digital single market and the european security agenda, and will continue to support the european investment plan.
madam president, we have years of increased dependence on imported gas. this is why the strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage is important and is on the european parliament's agenda. and both, and liquefied gas and gas storage will allow for a secure gas supply and a diversity of that supply which will then lead to us having a greater impact on the market, which should then cause prices to come down. this would allow heavy fossil fuels to be replaced by liquefied natural gas, which should of course lead to a positive environmental impact. so there are multiple benefits to using liquefied natural gas and so i expect the adoption of a strategy soon and also the creation of a common energy union, which will lead, of course, to a common european policy on the use of liquefied natural gas.
madam president, a large number of eu citizens make their living from tourism. we have a huge number of small and medium-sized enterprises that are operating in the tourism sector. even more citizens are using tourist services. and that's where we get into trouble. we don't have common, uniform standards in the european union for the use of tourist services. a big problem is the standardization of hotel tourism services or auto-camp services, for example. we have a common quality label of 2, 3, 4 and 5 stars, but we do not have the same quality in the member states. it's almost a rule that in the old member countries, the founding member countries, the quality of hotel accommodation is lower than in the new member countries, and we have the same stars for hotel service. that's certainly not good, because we have a single market. it's a bit of a scam on the consumer, the user of the service. in this context, i expect that tourism, and the commissioner responsible for tourism, will really come up with a proposal on how to standardise tourism services in the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be here today, once again, to take part in this debate on two of the most important pillars of the energy union: energy efficiency and renewable energy. moreover, addressing them at the same time reflects the important role they both play in meeting the ambitious climate commitments reached at the last paris summit. and the debate is coming at a very appropriate time, as we are finalising the review of energy efficiency and renewable energy legislation, which will be published in the second half of the year. let me begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for their excellent work on these important own-initiative reports. i shall start with mr pieper's report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. as you know, we are preparing the revisions of the energy efficiency and energy efficiency in buildings directives. the purpose is to set energy efficiency targets for 2030 and to ensure that we have the right framework and measures in place to achieve them and, by focusing on buildings in particular, we are giving priority to sectors with the greatest potential for energy savings. the report draws a number of conclusions which we will take into account in preparing the reviews i have just mentioned. i fully agree with the conclusion of the pieper report on the need to systematically include the principle of energy efficiency first in our energy and climate policies. let me also say that europe needs an explicit target for 2030 that is embedded in legislation. it will be important in sending a positive signal to investors and policymakers and in boosting the long-term investments we need to meet our objectives. but the revision of our energy legislation needs to go far beyond a final objective. we need to take compliance and enforcement seriously. in this connection, let me stress the fact that the review of the energy efficiency directive will address article 7, energy saving obligations. the recent evaluation showed that member states have taken this policy seriously, have taken the necessary measures and have put in place control and verification systems to achieve the necessary savings by 2020. it is expected that by 2020 this article could contribute to about half of the savings of the energy efficiency directive. it has been an effective instrument, but we now need to align it with the overall 2030 framework so that it can contribute to the ambitious emission reduction targets set at the european council in october 2014. it will also be important to encourage private investment in our buildings, a sector with enormous savings potential, a sector key not only to achieving our energy efficiency targets, but also to tackling energy poverty, reducing high energy bills and reducing health risks. the review of the energy efficiency in buildings directive will pay particular attention to these objectives. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for including these important matters in his report, and we have to work closely on these legislative proposals. of course, this also applies to the revision of the renewable energy directive. this is a directive that has worked well. with a share of renewables of 16% of final energy consumption in 2014, the european union and a majority of member states are making good progress towards the 2020 targets. all but one country is ahead of its indicative trajectory and nine have already reached their 2020 targets. this has allowed us to cut our fossil fuel imports, reduce emissions and develop a competitive renewable energy industry. however, some member states need to step up their efforts to keep up with the intense trajectory we need to maintain in the coming years. that is why we are fully focused on the implementation of the renewable energy directive and i know that this is fundamental for the european parliament. but as the report rightly points out, we also need to look beyond 2020. the review of the renewable energy directive will be the central pillar of these efforts and will be reinforced by the redesign of the electricity market and the energy union governance initiative. as many of you have asked, we want to put on the table a robust legal framework that gives stability to investors and helps us achieve our objectives efficiently. our ambition is that the revision of the renewables directive, the redesign of the electricity market and the reinforced emissions trading system will be key drivers for new investments in renewables that will help europe become number one in this sector. in the review of the renewable energy directive we intend to address many of the concerns reflected in its amendments. for example, how to better harness the potential of renewable energy in the heating and cooling sector and how to incentivise the role of the consumer. we are also working to remove the administrative and institutional barriers which hold back investment in europe. let me give you an idea of the elements we're considering. first, on targets we need to build on the progress made by 2020. so we're exploring setting the 2020 national targets as a starting point. secondly, the directive will concentrate on three sectors which will help us to achieve our objectives: electricity, heating and cooling, and transport. in particular, we share your concern about the slow progress in the transport sector. thirdly, another key point will be the role of support schemes for renewables. in our proposal we will consolidate the shift towards a market-based system for support mechanisms for renewables and towards convergence of national support schemes. as i have already mentioned, we plan to move towards better market design, which, together with a strengthened emissions trading system, will make it easier for renewable energy generators to get the maximum benefit from the market. finally, we have seen in this report that the question of the sustainability criteria for bioenergy is of considerable interest. the commission is working on an enhanced sustainability policy for biofuels and biomass. biomass is the main source of renewable energy in the european union and we are looking for a pragmatic approach that ensures considerable emission savings, avoids risks of significant environmental impacts and avoids unnecessary administrative burdens, especially for small power plants and small forest owners. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by stressing the importance i attach to this debate and to the contribution of the european parliament to the preparation of future legislative proposals. i would like to mention one last aspect which i believe is of great importance in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. i am referring to the need to mobilise investment in these sectors. the european fund for strategic investments has opened the door to new possibilities which we must exploit wisely, and i would like to call on local, regional and national authorities to make greater use of this instrument. i would like to conclude by saying that the commission is very grateful for these two reports. i assure you that in the coming legislative proposals we will be ambitious and ensure that energy efficiency and renewable energy are the key drivers of our paris commitments and our transition towards the decarbonisation of our energy system, and i look forward to working closely with the european parliament to make this noble cause possible.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on her report and thank her for her cooperation. the european union and the member states are on track to achieve the binding target of 20% renewable energy in gross final consumption by 2020. the expected progress is being made in the heating and cooling sector, but i am concerned about the lack of progress in the transport sector. the lack of progress in this area is due to the uncertainty of investments in biofuels production, and i therefore expect the commission to clarify the perspective for advanced biofuels producers with a new legislative proposal on renewable energy sources for the period after 2020. i regret that the final report did not include the environment committee's view on the need to carry out an assessment of the positive role of european forests as a carbon sink and the full potential of this sector in achieving future targets. unlocking the full potential of the agricultural and forestry sectors through investment in advanced biofuels could contribute to the creation of 146 000 permanent jobs and a further 162 000 temporary jobs, making a significant contribution to the revitalisation of our rural areas and keeping people in the countryside.
written. i want to emphasise the importance of renewable energy sources as a bright future for the eu's energy independence. the cost of producing energy from renewable sources is still too high and only continued long-term investment is a prerequisite for achieving the very ambitious targets set. i would like to draw attention once again to the potential of south-east europe in terms of hydro-energy and biomass. we need to include this part of europe in all our plans, as it can make a significant contribution to creating an efficient energy mix in the single european energy market.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing a commission of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and irregularities in the application of union legislation in the field of money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion, as i believe that the commission should start work as soon as possible. the committee of inquiry has 65 members and a 12-month mandate, after which it is to submit its final report. i believe that sufficient time has been given to establish whether there has been a failure on the part of the european commission and the member states. it is of the utmost importance to identify what enables, and how, money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion in order to prevent and deter such practices in the future, and i therefore support the appointment and the commencement of the commission.
written. ‒ tax avoidance inevitably affects the confidence of eu citizens in the proper functioning of legal institutions, both at national and european level. we cannot escape the fact that tax fraud is a common way of recklessly exploiting the lack of control or legal loopholes in the system and is a direct injury to every citizen who duly fulfils his obligations. however, intentional breaches of national laws and rules through money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion, and breaches and irregularities in the application of union legislation leave a bitter taste in the mouth of the average taxpayer, who rightly questions why the rules apply to some and not to others. the discovery of 11.5 million documents detailing classified information for 214,418 offshore companies is unfortunately only a fraction of what is actually happening. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission. i supported the establishment and appointment of the members of this committee of inquiry and i wish them success in their work. only a fair treatment of the authorities towards each taxpayer will strengthen citizens' trust in both national and european institutions. and trust is essential today if we are to continue to build the union on sound foundations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes, as it strengthens eu-lebanon cooperation and increases the union's influence in the middle east. the union's contribution to the union's programmes shall be in accordance with the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against corruption and organised crime. it is also important to emphasise that lebanon has to contribute financially to the eu budget for the specific programmes in which it participates. i therefore support the conclusion of this protocol.
written. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy was created not only to help achieve closer cooperation between the eu member states and its closest neighbours, but also to contribute to the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in the countries where it is implemented, as well as to their economic and social growth and development. political, economic and social reforms are the foundation on which this policy and good cooperation are based. lebanon has been going through a turbulent period recently, and we have recently witnessed terrorist attacks, which pose a threat both to lebanon and to the whole world. therefore, i consider this agreement and the further rapprochement of lebanon with the european union and the mutual cooperation to be a good step towards further stabilising the country, bringing about the necessary reforms, but also strengthening the lebanese republic with the support of the european union. this protocol will establish rules to enable lebanon to participate in action plans designed specifically for the needs of lebanon and its people. the protocol establishes standard rules applicable to all signatory countries to the agreement under the european neighbourhood policy. it contributes to the well-being of the signatory countries, but also of the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ lebanon is a key partner for the eu in the middle east. the country faces a fragile security environment, particularly because of the syrian war, with more than one million refugees out of a population of four million. the eu is interested in fostering stability in lebanon, developing capacities and promoting direct contacts and knowledge transfer. i'm joining already a broad consensus at the committee level on the need to further engage in efforts to help lebanon. i also support this report.
written. ‒ the main objective of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon (the framework agreement) is to establish financial and technical rules enabling the republic of lebanon to participate in certain european union programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol sets out the principles of economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows the republic of lebanon to receive technical assistance, in particular financial assistance, to be provided by the union in accordance with its programmes. the union shall contribute to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. the recommendation of the foreign affairs committee was also taken into account in the consent. i support the adoption of this protocol because i believe that it will improve relations between the european union and the republic of lebanon.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. the objective of the protocol is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling the republic of lebanon to participate in certain union programmes. since the horizontal framework established by the protocol sets out the principles of economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows the republic of lebanon to receive assistance, in particular financial assistance provided by the union under those programmes, that framework applies only to those union programmes for which the relevant constituent legal acts provide for the possibility of participation by the republic of lebanon.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union, as this gives the union's consent to the conclusion of the agreement. this is a technical procedure resulting from the membership of the above countries in the european union, which is a natural and consistent course of action, and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ since the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, was signed in 2002, it is important that the member states which joined the eu after the signing of that agreement should also be included in the agreement as equal partners, as full members of the eu, and for the benefit of all signatories. the 10 countries that joined the eu in 2004 in the biggest enlargement will thus become part of an agreement covering trade in products and aiming to further enhance cooperation in the mediterranean area. the liberalised trade in agricultural products will enable all parties to market their agricultural products in a more efficient and high-quality manner, which will have a positive impact on the economies of the signatory countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. public procurement also opens up opportunities for businesses, encouraging private investment and contributing to growth and job creation. finally, public procurement plays an important role in the direction of the european structural and investment funds. in view of the benefits it brings and the strengthening of eu cooperation with lebanon, i supported this recommendation to conclude a protocol acceding to the agreement by the 10 member states associated to the eu in 2014.
written. ‒ lebanon is a key partner for the eu in the middle east. the country faces a fragile security environment, particularly because of the syrian war, with more than one million refugees out of a population of four million. the eu is interested in fostering stability in lebanon, developing capacities and promoting direct contacts and knowledge transfer. i'm joining already a broad consensus at the committee level on the need to further engage in efforts to help lebanon. i also support this report as it is a technical update of the existing treaty to take account of the 2004 enlargement of the eu.
written. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the agreement, taking into account the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. as those countries became member states in 2004, i support the conclusion of this agreement.
written. ‒ the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of the agreement, taking into account the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. i support the conclusion of this agreement because i consider that such a thing naturally follows from the fact that those are member states of the european union.
‒ on 10 february 2004, the council authorised the commission, on behalf of the european community and its member states, to open negotiations with the republic of lebanon with a view to adjusting the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of new member states to the european union. since the negotiations have been completed to the commission's satisfaction, i have endorsed the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, since it gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. this is a technical procedure resulting from the membership of the above countries in the european union, which is a natural and consistent course of action, and i therefore support this recommendation.
‒ the euro-mediterranean agreement between the member states of the european union, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, signed in 2002, provides, first and foremost, a framework for political dialogue, sets the conditions for the liberalisation of trade in the mediterranean area in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation, promotes trade and the expansion of economic relations between the signatory countries, and promotes economic, social, cultural, financial and monetary cooperation between the european union and the mediterranean countries, and contributes to ensuring peace, stability, economic and social development and technological progress. this agreement is important for the development of regular political dialogue on bilateral and international issues and for the development of close relations on issues of common interest. as the republic of bulgaria and romania have been members of the european union since 1 january 2007 and full participants in its policies, i have supported this protocol in order to better and more effectively regulate the relations between bulgaria and romania, as a member state of the european union, and the republic of lebanon, as one of the parties to the euro-mediterranean agreement. the adoption of this protocol will enable the republics of bulgaria, romania and lebanon to establish more effective partnerships, to develop harmonious economic and social relations and to cooperate in a highly significant way both in the import of industrial products and in trade in agricultural and fishery products.
written. ‒ lebanon is a key partner for the eu in the middle east. the country faces a fragile security environment, particularly because of the syrian war, with more than one million refugees out of a population of four million. the eu is interested in fostering stability in lebanon, developing capacities and promoting direct contacts and knowledge transfer. i'm joining already a broad consensus at the committee level on the need to further engage in efforts to help lebanon. i also support this report as it is a technical update of the existing treaty to take account of the 2007 enlargement of the eu.
written. ‒ i am in favour of the conclusion of the agreement, taking into account the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. furthermore, i supported such a decision in view of the position of the committee on foreign trade, bearing in mind that bulgaria and romania became members of the union in 2007.
written. ‒ the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of the agreement, taking into account the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the commission invited interested parties to comment on the provisional measures. i support the conclusion of this agreement because i consider that such a thing naturally follows from the fact that the countries mentioned are members of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. in view of the worsening situation in neighbouring syria, the european union supports the unity, stability, independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of lebanon. the commission has therefore provided more than eur 550 million in humanitarian aid and development and stabilisation support to lebanon, with regular cooperation provided for.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco concerning measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec (com (((2016) 0201 c8-0157/2016 2016/0109 ((nle))), as that agreement is an important step in the current efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and constitutes an upgrade of the previous agreement of 2004. the eu member states and monaco shall exchange information on the financial accounts held by nationals of the other party automatically, as from 2018, for information collected since 1 january 2017.
written. ‒ the importance of automatic exchange of information on financial accounts as a means of combating cross-border tax fraud and cross-border tax evasion at international level is high. that is why a single global standard for the automatic exchange of information was developed and published in july 2014. i consider that the expansion of mandatory automatic exchange of information between competent tax administrations in the union, and in line with the global standard, is necessary and desirable. given that the taxation of savings directive has been repealed and that directive 2014/107/eu amending directive 2011/16/eu with regard to the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation applies, it is necessary to amend the existing taxation of savings agreements with switzerland, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino. in this context, i have supported this report and the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco. the amendment protocol will implement a global standard between the member states and monaco, which will certainly contribute to the transparency of the tax and financial system of the union.
‒ the eu and monaco have reached an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which aims to improve tax cooperation and enforcement at international level. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and is an upgrade of the 2004 agreement, which guarantees that monaco applies measures equivalent to those in the eu directive on taxation of savings income on interest. the agreement provides for the automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts held by nationals of the other party in the territory of the european union and monaco, as from 2018, for information collected since 1 january 2017. the aim is to tackle situations where taxpayers want to conceal capital representing income or assets that have not been taxed. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial instruments are used for the purpose of the provision of financial services. i fully welcome and support the agreement.
‒ the european union and monaco have negotiated an agreement providing for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, with a view to improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement is an important step in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud and builds on the 2004 agreement by which monaco started applying measures equivalent to those required by the eu savings tax directive. the new agreement will provide for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts between the member states and monaco, with the main objective of responding adequately to situations in which taxpayers attempt to avoid paying taxes. i support this report because i believe that monaco should apply measures equivalent to the legislative framework of the european union, which are in line with the procedures for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts.
‒ the european union and monaco have agreed on an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts with a view to improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement represents an important step in the process of combating tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement provides for the automatic exchange of information between the member states of the union and monaco on financial accounts in their territories as from 2018 for information collected as from 1 january 2017. the agreement will also provide for the exchange of information on the tax treatment of individuals and businesses in monaco, including on the tax treatment of individuals and businesses in monaco. i support the adoption of this agreement because i believe that it will address situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital representing income or assets for which he has not paid tax.
written. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco providing for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the automatic exchange of information is of great importance as a means of combating cross-border tax fraud and cross-border tax evasion by ensuring full tax transparency and systematic cooperation between tax administrations worldwide. the g20 entrusted the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) with the task of developing a single global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, and the oecd council published that global standard in july 2014. the parties shall cooperate to ensure that the information is provided in a manner that is consistent with the principles of confidentiality and integrity of the information.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request submitted by belgium egf/2015/012 be/hainaut machinery) because i believe that union financial assistance to redundant workers should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. this report agrees with the commission that the intervention criteria set out in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 824 041 under that regulation.
written. ‒ in view of the reduction in production in one entire manufacturing sector in belgium, the production of machinery and equipment, which resulted in the dismissal of as many as 488 workers in the hainaut region who were declared surplus, and given that the eu has the instruments but also the obligation to help workers affected by major structural changes, i supported the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund on the basis of a request submitted by belgium. i am pleased that, in addition to the workers made redundant, the financial assistance received from the fund will also be used to create new opportunities and jobs for the unemployed young people, who are very numerous in the region. the belgian region of hainaut is facing a difficult labour market situation, with an employment rate of 52,7%. the commission notes that the walloon region has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the walloon region was compatible with the internal market. on the other hand, the labour market in hainaut is characterised by a high proportion of under-qualified workers (just over half of jobseekers have not completed secondary education), so it is important to invest in orientation and training measures and in the development of skills adapted to the needs.
‒ the eu has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and the global financial and economic crisis and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following redundancies in the machinery and plant engineering sector, and whereas the measures are intended to cover 488 redundant workers and 300 young people from the hainaut region who are not in employment, education or training and are under 25 years of age. although the application does not fulfil the eligibility criteria set out in article 4 (1) of the egf regulation, submitted on the basis of the intervention criteria set out in article 4 (2) allowing for a derogation from the eligibility criteria according to the number of workers declared as surplus, i agree with the commission that the intervention criteria set out in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are fulfilled and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 824 041 under that regulation, which corresponds to 60% of the total cost of eur 3 040 069.
‒ caterpillar belgium sa has made 1399 redundancies in the hainaut region, where the current unemployment rate is high at 14,5% (5,9% above the national average), due to the significant rise in steel prices in europe. the report notes that the fund will finance integrated training of workers, start-up aid and joint projects, as well as the costs of job search and training allowances. given that the union is committed to providing financial assistance to workers declared redundant as a result of the economic crisis as soon as possible, it is essential that this proposal be adopted as soon as possible. i support the report of the committee on budgets, since the launch of the fund for adaptation to globalisation in hainaut (be32) will enable it to provide additional support to workers and unemployed young people who are affected by the decline in the competitiveness of european producers.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was created to provide additional assistance to workers directly affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the world sample trade. on 4 may 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 3 enterprises operating under nace revision 2 division 28 (machinery and equipment manufacturing) in the nuts 2 level region of hainaut (be32) in belgium. the belgian authorities argue that the events leading to the redundancies, the decline in public and private investment in infrastructure in the eu and the significant increase in steel prices in europe are causing serious disturbances in trade. i support the motion for a resolution because i consider that its purpose is to provide support for workers who have become surplus and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world patterns of trade due to globalisation, as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people who have lost their jobs as a result of significant structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, the closure of large companies or the relocation of production outside the european union, or as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. belgium has submitted an application under this programme egf/2015/012 be/hainaut machinery for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, following redundancies in the economic sector. as a member of the european parliament, i support all measures to create jobs and growth, but i do not consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be an effective tool for reintegrating surplus workers and i do not support its work in principle and i voted against this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009 (com (2015) 0180c8-0118/2015 2015/0096 ((cod)) as this regulation seeks to ensure the uniform and effective application in the european union of all measures under the recovery plan adopted between 2012 and 2014, which, together with the previous measures since 2008, has contributed to exceptional results in terms of the conservation of bluefin tuna and allows for a gradual increase in the total catches without compromising the results achieved. the commission has also proposed to amend the catch reporting system in order to ensure that the catch reporting system is more transparent and that the catch reporting system is more transparent.
‒ the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas has adopted measures for a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan (bft) in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean sea, which will apply from 2007 to 2022. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european union reference laboratory for the assessment of the effects of the use of the biocidal products referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. such common fisheries policies are necessary to preserve the good state of the fisheries and to ensure the most efficient exploitation of marine resources. i particularly welcome two sections of this report. first, advocating the role of traditional tools and techniques in the conservation of fish stocks, because i believe that in implementing the eu bluefin tuna recovery plan, these tools and techniques should be given special consideration because of their selectivity. secondly, i welcome the inclusion in this plan of catching vessels flying the flag of the republic of croatia, which extends the existing number established in 2008 and takes into account the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu and its efforts to conserve bluefin tuna.
written. ‒ each member state shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the fishing effort of its catching vessels and tuna trap operators is commensurate with the fishing opportunities for bluefin tuna available to that member state in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. the maximum number and the corresponding gross tonnage of fishing vessels flying the flag of a member state fishing for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean shall not exceed the number and the total corresponding gross tonnage of fishing vessels flying the flag of that member state which have caught, retained on board, transhipped, transported or landed bluefin tuna during the period from 1 january 2007 to 1 july 2008. the fishing opportunities set out in this regulation shall be managed in accordance with the management plan established by the union. the flag member state shall withdraw the authorisation to fish bluefin tuna and may require the vessel to proceed immediately to a port designated by it if it considers that the vessel has exhausted its quota. i consider that, with the amendments annexed, a proposal for a council and european parliament regulation on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009 is essential if we are to see progress on the recovery of bluefin tuna in those areas.
written. ‒ the report recommends more concrete measures on landing, transfer, caging, the use of stereoscopic cameras to analyse bluefin tuna more efficiently, catch reporting requirements, and the implementation of the iccat regional monitoring programme. the commission has also assessed the fishing opportunities available to the union in the north sea, in the north sea and in the mediterranean. i support this report because i believe it is necessary to improve the protection of one of the most important species for fishermen in the union. i support the committee's view that the european union must strive to ensure equality for all bluefin tuna operators, both eu and non-eu. otherwise, all the efforts and limitations will not produce the desired results. it is of particular importance that the report stresses the need to protect traditional fishing practices, arguing that their impact on the ecosystem is negligible. in order to protect the principles of open markets and equal opportunities, it is necessary to adopt more comprehensive regulation of bluefin tuna.
‒ the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic and adjacent seas. the proposal contains technical measures such as those for live tuna transfer operations in cages, including measures to use stereoscopic cameras to assess the quantity of tuna and inform the public thereof. the iccat secretariat shall be responsible for the management of the iccat record of fishing activities. such decisions are binding and must be incorporated into union law. i support the position of parliament in adopting the report because i believe that parliament is competent enough to assess whether a report is sufficiently clear and well-formed.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009. the objective of this proposal is to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean sea adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas at its annual meetings from 2012 to 2014. this regulation lays down the general rules of the tuna recovery plan, while taking into account the specificities of the different gears, with particular attention to traditional and sustainable gears and gears used in small-scale coastal fishing, such as tuna traps. this legislative initiative will address the issues of ensuring the uniform and effective application of the latest measures of the iccat multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan throughout the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 (com (2014) 0614 c8 0174/2014 2014/0285 (cod)) as it is a multiannual management plan that takes into account several species that are interlinked and interact. it is also important because these three species - cod, herring and sprat - in the baltic sea account for over 94% of catches in recent years and there are risks of overfishing and the consequences for the ecosystem of the closure of the baltic. such a plan can serve to develop other management and exploitation plans for fish stocks in other seas, for fish that interact with each other. the management approach of the union should be based on the principle of sustainable exploitation of the stocks, and should be based on the principle of sustainable exploitation of the resources of the union.
written. ‒ the current regulations for managing the baltic sea stocks have covered only cod, and this stock has also been assessed as being disproportionate to the current situation of cod stocks and the fisheries that depend on it, which may undermine the stability of the baltic sea ecosystem. since herring and mackerel are also present in the baltic sea and are in constant interaction with cod and are therefore an integral part of the baltic sea ecosystem, i consider it important to adopt a regulation recognising the mutual influence of these species and regulating the management of their stocks accordingly and for this reason i voted in favour of adopting a multiannual plan for cod, herring and mackerel stocks in the baltic sea. the need to maintain ecosystem balance requires proper care and i consider it a good move to include all stocks of the relevant fish species in a single management plan that can ensure a more efficient and balanced exploitation of those stocks and the stability of traditional fisheries, given that the current exploitation rates of cod, herring and sprat stocks are not consistent with achieving the maximum sustainable yield. the model of this multiannual plan could lead to similar plans for fisheries in other geographical areas, with constant reference to the latest scientific research.
the united nations convention of 10 december 1982 on the law of the sea, to which the union is a party, provides for conservation obligations, including the maintenance or restoration of populations of harvested species at levels capable of producing the highest sustainable yield, as determined by appropriate environmental and economic factors. the management plan for a large number of species established by this regulation requires that greater account be taken of the different ecological roles and functions of the species covered by the plan; as the various species are highly interacting, catches cannot be maximally sustainable for all species at the same time and decisions need to be taken on which species to give priority. the exploitation of cod and pelagic stocks shall not jeopardise the sustainability of the stocks taken as by-catch in that fishery, i.e. the stocks of plaice, mackerel, herring and plaice in the baltic. the plan should therefore also aim at ensuring the conservation of those demersal stocks above biomass levels that correspond to the precautionary and ecosystem-based approaches to fisheries management that can produce the highest sustainable yield.
written. ‒ since 2008, a provision on the control of cod catches in the baltic sea has been in force, but the fisheries committee considers that the existing provision does not take into account the current fishing situation in the baltic sea and that it needs to be amended. the existing provisions also do not cover the state of the baltic sea herring and puffins. the committee considers that, in view of the fisheries and the continuing ecological changes in the fisheries habitat, a comprehensive management plan for baltic cod, herring and papalina is needed. it is proposed that management be carried out using the most up-to-date scientific methods, taking into account the consequences for other fish species and the ecology of the baltic sea subsea. the committee recommends that the commission should also monitor the plan if management or fishing has a significant impact on the so-called 'flat fish'. the first review of the plan should take place three years after its entry into force and, if the plan produces positive effects, a second review would follow five years after its establishment. given that the current provisions cover only one species of baltic fish, that the baltic sea is a sensitive habitat and of great economic importance to the member states, and that it covers the possibility of extension to other fish species, i support this report.
written. ‒ the european commission published a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and for the fisheries and exploitation of these stocks in october 2014. the project aims to establish a framework for the management of cod, herring and mackerel stocks in the baltic sea, where fishing is primarily concentrated on these three species. the baltic sea management plan has been in place since 2008, but is not considered to be commensurate with the current cod stock situation. the stocks of herring and of papalina are not yet covered by the management plan. cod, herring and parrotfish are important components of the baltic ecosystem. it is estimated that cod, herring and sprat have accounted for more than 94% of the baltic catches in recent years. it is important to bear in mind that the plan is only an introductory proposal in the very fragile ecosystem of the baltic sea. the first review of the plan should take place three years after its entry into force and, if it has positive effects, it will be revised again after 5 years. this will also provide the much needed flexibility of the plan. i support the position of parliament in adopting the report because i believe that parliament is competent enough to assess whether a report is sufficiently clear and well-formed.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007. the objective of this regulation of the european parliament is to establish a fisheries plan for a large number of species taking into account the dynamics between the stocks of cod, herring and sprat and the by-catch of species in the fisheries for those stocks, i.e. goldenseal, sprat, herring and plaice in the baltic. although the baltic cod stock management plan has been in force since 2008, it is considered to be out of proportion to the current cod stock situation and the cod and herring are not covered by the plan. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to amend the list of stocks subject to the landing obligation set out in annex i to regulation (eu) no 1380/2013.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction and the applicable law, and on the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes, because i consider that this proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regimes is clearly in the interest of the union and its international couples. it will remove a number of legal doubts and uncertainties.
written. ‒ while the council regulation on jurisdiction and the applicable law and on the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes would greatly facilitate legal proceedings by international spouses in a situation of divorce or death of one of the spouses, i did not support the proposal for a regulation because the regulation is not sufficiently precisely defined in law and the legal ambiguity and vacuum leads to unintended consequences of granting equal rights to married and other partnerships and puts undue pressure on the family law of the member states. if a single european legislative act is to be adopted, it must first of all clearly define what constitutes marriage, namely that marriage is the union of one man and one woman, which is not specified in the regulation. since nine member states of the european union equate same-sex unions with marriage, the adoption of this regulation would equate marriage and other unions in a totally inappropriate way at eu level. this would also jeopardise the national family policy of member states which have a well-defined institution of marriage and clearly distinguish, or do not regulate, other unions. each member state must retain the freedom to provide legal protection for the institution of marriage, and the distinction between matrimonial and other civil partnerships must be very clearly defined.
written. ‒ this proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regime is the second in the series on this subject. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the regulation will be a very useful instrument for international couples within the european union. in the area of matrimonial property regime, it covers jurisdiction and the law applicable as well as the recognition and enforcement of decisions. however, it excludes, in particular, questions of the capacity of spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of marriage, maintenance obligations and succession of the deceased spouse. the autonomy of the member states in family law matters is therefore preserved. the regulation also does not affect the substantive law of the member states on matrimonial property regimes. in other words, parliament's demands were met. in conclusion, i agree with the rapporteur, mr jean-marie cavad, that this proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regimes is clearly in the interest of the union and its international couples. it will remove a number of legal doubts and uncertainties.
written. ‒ the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs simplifies the previously unclear and undefined jurisdiction of the courts on matrimonial property for married couples coming from different member states. the legal entity is entitled to choose the country of which it is a national or the country of which its spouse is a national and to settle matters of succession under the laws of the country of its choice. the recommendation states that any court decisions relating to the bankruptcy are binding, except in 'very specific circumstances'. the recommendation calls for the establishment of an effective means of communicating these rights to all married couples who are not nationals of the same country.
written. ‒ this proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes is the second on this subject. the 2016 proposal for a regulation differs from the commission's initial 2011 proposal. on the contrary, it contains many of the amendments proposed by parliament in 2013. the regulation does not cover issues such as the legal capacity of spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of marriage, maintenance obligations. the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law is thus preserved. i support the proposal for this regulation because i believe that it will be a very useful instrument for the rights of international couples in the union. the regulation will put an end to the many cases of legal uncertainty in this area.
written. ‒ the increasing mobility of persons within the area without internal borders has led to a significant increase in the number of couples who are nationals of different member states living in a member state other than their own or acquiring property in more than one member state. the number of international couples within the union is large and the practical and legal difficulties they face in the day-to-day management of their property and in the division of property following the divorce of the couple or the death of one of the members of the couple have been identified, and this proposal seeks to establish a clear legal framework of the european union for determining the jurisdiction and the law applicable to matrimonial property regimes and to facilitate the circulation of decisions and documents between member states. since i consider that this area should remain the responsibility of the member states and that the entry into force of this regulation would lead to a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships, as this proposal will contribute to the removal of a number of doubts in this area, which is certainly in the interest of the european union and of the international couples living in it.
written. ‒ since this proposal on jurisdiction and the law applicable in matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships was accompanied by a similar proposal on matrimonial property regimes, which has been almost completely adopted, such an attempt to equalise marriage and other civil unions is problematic. the question is inevitable whether some future act will similarly attempt to equalise marriage and other unions in matters of parental care, adoption, and the like. the commission should also be able to assess the compatibility of the proposed amendments with the requirements of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular with the requirements of article 4 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and with the requirements of article 4 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. thus, the impression is given that the registered partnership is imposed on all countries. i did not support the proposal on jurisdiction and applicable law in matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships because i consider that not all the legal elements are sufficiently clearly and precisely defined and that this proposal opens the door to the almost forced harmonisation of other contentious issues related to registered partnerships.
written. ‒ this proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction and the applicable law, and on the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships is the second in a series on this subject. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the regulation will be a very useful instrument for international couples within the european union. in the field of property consequences of registered partnerships, it covers jurisdiction and the law applicable as well as the recognition and enforcement of decisions. however, in particular, questions of the legal capacity of the partners, the existence, validity or recognition of the partnership, the maintenance obligation and the succession of the deceased partner are excluded from its scope. the autonomy of the member states in family law matters is therefore preserved. the regulation also does not affect the substantive law of the member states on registered partnerships or their property consequences. the parliament's requests are therefore granted. in conclusion, i agree with the rapporteur, mr jean-marie cavad, that this proposal for a regulation on the property consequences of registered partnerships is clearly in the interest of the union and its international couples. it will remove a number of legal doubts and uncertainties.
written. ‒ the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs should simplify the previously unclear and undefined jurisdiction of the courts on matters of matrimonial property regimes originating in different member states. the legal entity should be entitled to choose the country of which it is a national, or the country of which its spouse is a national, and to settle matters of succession under the laws of the country of its choice, on the basis of the recommendation. the recommendation states that any court decisions relating to the bankruptcy are binding, except in 'very specific circumstances'. the recommendation calls for the establishment of an effective means of communicating these rights to all registered couples who are not nationals of the same country.
written. ‒ this regulation is a very useful instrument for international couples in the european union. the regulation covers matters of jurisdiction, the application of the law, the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of ownership of registered partnerships. the regulation clearly defines which court has jurisdiction in the procedure for property disputes between international couples. the regulation also establishes means for communicating the necessary basic legal information to international couples. i support this report because i believe it is in the interests of the european union and international couples. i believe that the implementation of this proposal will remove the ambiguity and put an end to many cases of legal uncertainty.
written. ‒ the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction and the applicable law, and on the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships is the second in a series on this subject and aims to establish a comprehensive set of rules of private international law applicable to the property consequences of registered partnerships. as in the case of matrimonial property regimes, the property relations between registered partners and between the partners and third parties arise from the prior existence of a registered partnership. the property consequences of registered partnerships arise with the registration of the partnership, just as the matrimonial property regime arises with marriage, and cease with the dissolution of the partnership. the partnership is registered with a public body and establishes a stable and legally recognised relationship. however, i did not support this report because the establishment of a comprehensive set of european union rules on this issue would lead to a breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the massacres in eastern congo, given that the international community and the government of the drc have not done enough to condemn and address the deteriorating security situation in the north-eastern part of the drc, where armed groups continue to operate and numerous massacres, the recruitment of children into armed groups and sexual and gender-based violence have been recorded. the eu should consider the possibility of imposing targeted sanctions on those responsible for the massacres in the eastern part of the congo and the violent repression in the drc. the eu should continue to provide assistance to the people of the drc in order to improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable, in particular the internally displaced persons. the international community must urgently launch a thorough, independent and transparent investigation into the massacre.
written. ‒ the congo is a country that has not been able to overcome the conflicts that have devastated it for decades, mainly because of its natural resources (mining, forests, oil fields...). rich in coltan, a black metal used in many electronic devices, and other natural resources, the war has claimed the lives of more than 5 million people to date. i supported the resolution on the massacres in the eastern congo because there are shameful violations of basic human rights every day in that country and we have a duty to respond to them. an average of 60 people lose their lives in a single month, some people are even burned alive, more than 30,000 people have been forcibly displaced, many villages have been occupied, and many women and children have been raped. the value of human life in eastern congo has been reduced to the lowest possible level, and material gain is the motive for the rebels to devastate this country to the limit. we therefore have a duty to get involved and to help those unfortunate people in a concrete way, and the adoption of this resolution is only the first step. the east congo has been ravaged by years of war and will hardly ever again become a land of peace, but all the world institutions must be actively engaged so that the atrocities committed are no longer ignored and so that the suffering of the people in the east congo finally ends.
written. ‒ the security situation in the democratic republic of congo continues to deteriorate, particularly in the north-eastern part of the country. reports from the country are of massacres, the recruitment and use of children by armed gangs, and widespread sexual violence. in the areas of benia, lubera and butembo, more than 1,160 people were brutally killed between october 2014 and may 2016, more than 1,470 people went missing, many houses, health centers and schools were burned. a large number of women, children and men have been victims of sexual violence. the current conflict and military operations have forced 1.5 million people to be internally displaced, as well as 500,000 people to leave the country. i am saddened by the fact that these horrifying events have been accompanied by silence from the international community and the media. i express my deep concern at the escalation of violence in the democratic republic of the congo and the alarming humanitarian situation resulting from the armed conflict in the eastern provinces that has been ongoing for more than 20 years. i believe that this situation should not affect the holding of democratic elections within the constitutional deadline.
written. ‒ the ongoing humanitarian and military crisis in the congo has caused the death of some 5 million people, and the security situation, as well as the human rights situation in the eastern part of the country, continues to deteriorate. armed groups are still active, and reports of violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, such as targeted attacks on civilians and the systematic exploitation of children by armed groups, continue to come in. he was also responsible for the deaths of hundreds of civilians in the drc in the early 1990s. it is unacceptable to violate human rights, commit war crimes and crimes against humanity. it is therefore essential that the congolese authorities and international partners carry out thorough, independent and transparent investigations and that, by neutralising armed groups, they seek to create and maintain peace and stability in the region. i also believe that the european union should make a detailed assessment of the humanitarian situation in the congo, alert the international community to the massacres and provide assistance to save lives and improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable groups in the congo. i consider the situation in the congo to be a matter of concern and therefore support this report.
written. - the humanitarian and military crisis in the congo has so far caused the death of over 5 million people. there are constant reports of violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, especially in the east of the country. the european parliament expressed its deep concern at such violations, in particular attacks on civilians by armed groups. parliament called for the intervention of international organisations, in particular the african and european union, and of the congolese neighbours, in order to ensure a political dialogue between all stakeholders, prevent further destabilisation, and promote progress in the implementation of the peace, security and cooperation framework. the union is invited to send an observer to assess the situation and alert the international community to the massacres committed. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe it can make a difference in the security and protection of human rights in the drc and prevent targeted attacks on civilians, the increasing prevalence of sexual violence and the systematic recruitment and use of children by armed groups.
‒ between october 2014 and may 2016, 1,116 people lost their lives in violence in eastern congo. the situation in eastern congo regarding security and human rights is very alarming, attacks on the civilian population are continuing while the perpetrators of human rights violations go unpunished. the great discontent of the population is also growing due to the lack of any action on the issue of punishing the perpetrators by president kabila. i believe that those responsible for human rights violations, kidnappings, sexual violence against women and children must be brought to justice and held accountable. in addition, the government of the republic of congo must guarantee the protection of its citizens in order to put an end to the conflict. i also hope that the european union's dialogue with the republic of congo will be intensified in order to save lives and improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable groups of the population.
written. ‒ i voted for the follow-up report on the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (et 2020) because i believe that inclusive and high-quality education and training are of key importance for the cultural, economic and social development of europe. the report welcomes the review of the et 2020 programme and stresses the need to take its conclusions into account and implement them without delay in order to increase the added value and optimise the effectiveness of the framework, which will reinforce the relevance for each country and mutual learning. education should contribute to the personal development, mutual respect and growth of young people so that they become proactive, responsible and aware citizens with civic, social and intercultural cross-cutting competences and qualified professionals.
written. ‒ the right to education is one of the important human rights that develops the human being and his abilities in all segments, enriches him, opens and broadens his horizons, creates the basis for a more prosperous life and is a value in itself. i therefore supported the follow-up report on the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. we need to make further efforts to ensure that every child has access to education, and that education must be based not only on the technical transmission of knowledge but also on the transmission of values and the creation of responsible citizens who will contribute to the well-being of their country and the european union through their knowledge. in doing so, it is important to respect the independence of each member state and to keep educational curricula under national education legislation, so that they can nurture their history, culture and national values. education must not be spared because it ensures a better future, and therefore every effort must be made to ensure sufficient financial resources for a quality education system from the earliest pre-school age. the benefits of mobility and international cooperation in education, which membership of the european union offers to all member states, which generates new experiences and mutual national enrichment, should also be encouraged as far as possible.
written. ‒ i believe that education and training should not be directed solely at meeting the needs of the labour market, but should be a value in themselves, given that education has an equally important role in developing the ethical and civic virtues and humanistic values in the broad sense enshrined in the treaties, and in strengthening the democratic principles on which europe is founded. education should contribute to the personal development, mutual respect and growth of young people so that they become proactive, responsible and aware citizens with civic, social and intercultural cross-cutting competences and qualified professionals. i also believe that education should be considered a basic human right and a public good that should be available to everyone. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. on the other hand, i regret that the major problems of quality, accessibility and socioeconomic discrimination in education and training have not yet been resolved and i believe that more ambitious, coherent and effective policy measures should be taken at european and national level.
written. ‒ with the wave of migration continuously bringing new families to the eu, there is a need for a re-evaluation of the education system called et 2020. the report of the committee on culture and education alludes to segments of education and training that need to be carefully analysed in order to make the integration of migrants as effective as possible. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the committee considers that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the work of the european parliament and the council. achieving certain benchmarks in the final stage of education should therefore be accompanied by a strong focus on improving the quality of education at all levels. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo) in the member states. the report should, inter alia, highlight support for teachers in their further efforts to improve their qualifications, as it is essential to have professional teachers who are familiar with the latest changes in education. i support this report because i believe that education is crucial for integration and employment, because unless the formula for the necessary changes is found, social disparities are likely to widen.
written. ‒ education must be considered a fundamental human right and a public good that should be accessible to all. education should contribute to the personal development, mutual respect and growth of young people so that they become proactive, responsible and aware citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against terrorism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against terrorism. the importance of digital skills is to be highlighted, as these are crucial to prepare young people for the 21st century. students themselves of all ages and in all forms of education must be encouraged to take an active part in the management of their educational structures. i support this report because i believe that education and training should not be directed solely at meeting the needs of the labour market, but should be a value in themselves, given that education has an important role to play in developing civic and human values, and in strengthening the democratic principles on which the european union is founded.
mr president, i am extremely pleased that croatia is among those countries that are close to meeting the targets set by the commission. however, i want to emphasise the importance of consumer information and their role as energy producers. the consumer should be able to read the consumption at any time in order to be able to control it. it is estimated that the average household could save 10 to 30 percent on heating and cooling alone. also, switching suppliers is very expensive, and in some countries it takes months to get a replacement. i am particularly pleased with the new initiative to simplify energy classes to make it easier for consumers to navigate. the committee also adopted the s&d proposal to test devices in natural conditions rather than in laboratories. i consider this extremely important and i suggest that studies that speak of programmed malfunction be considered. however, we have a long way to go, both in terms of renewable energy sources and in terms of energy efficiency. i believe that consumer empowerment should be at the heart of energy reform.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive because it emphasises energy efficiency and energy saving as key factors for protecting the environment and climate, enhancing economic competitiveness, creating jobs, ensuring energy security and fighting energy poverty. energy efficiency is also extremely important in reducing our dependence on imports. the european union is currently making good progress towards meeting its 2020 climate and energy targets of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency, and should maintain its global leadership in this regard. this directive has triggered a number of positive developments in the member states, but poor implementation is holding back the realisation of its full potential.
written. ‒ an important part of the european union's environmental and energy policy relates to the production and use of energy from renewable sources. i welcome this report, which shows that european renewable energy policy has been successful so far. today, the countries of the european union, including croatia, are heavily dependent on energy imports. europe imports 53% of its energy, and that imports more than one billion euros a day. to reduce that dependence, we need to focus on those energy sources that are available locally, and those sources certainly include renewable energy sources. the report also provides guidance for new eu legislation that should continue to successfully implement eu policy beyond 2020. agriculture and forestry can be given a strong boost if the hitherto neglected potential is recognised and exploited. unlocking the full potential of the agricultural and forestry sectors through investment in advanced biofuels could help create 146,000 permanent jobs and another 162,000 temporary jobs in the eu, making a significant contribution to the revitalisation of our rural areas and keeping people in the countryside. i supported this report and hope that croatia will identify its strengths and do what is necessary to ensure that national policies in synergy with eu policies deliver the needs and desired results.
written. ‒ given that ambitious renewable energy policies, together with energy efficiency, are important drivers for reducing the eu's import dependency and its overall external energy cost and for increasing energy security vis-à-vis external suppliers, and that the eu imports more than half of its total energy consumption, at a cost of more than eur 1 billion every day, representing more than 20% of total imports, and that import dependency is particularly high for crude oil, natural gas and coal, i call for greater use of renewable energy. while welcoming the fact that the eu is on track to achieve its 2020 target, i am concerned about the large number of countries that, according to the commission's 2014-2020 estimates in the 2015 renewable energy progress report, may need to strengthen their policies and instruments to meet the 2020 targets. i call on member states lagging behind to take additional measures to make up the shortfall. i welcome the fact that some member states have already achieved or will soon achieve their 2020 targets, well ahead of schedule, such as croatia.
written. ‒ the development of renewable energy can make a major contribution to energy security and sovereignty, as well as to eradicating energy poverty and boosting the economic development of the european union. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests and ecosystems, and to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment. i support this report because i believe that the european union is on track to meet its 2020 renewable energy targets, but that each member state must make more efforts individually. i also believe that a stable and long-term regulatory framework is needed if the european union is to achieve economic growth, create jobs and maintain its leading role in these areas at global level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
written. ‒ a new approach to renewable energy development is needed to make renewable energy sources a pillar of the eu's energy model. today, our main responsibility must be to fight climate change. to strengthen our energy model, we need to create quality jobs, drive strategic technology development and reduce our dependence on energy from the rest of the world. the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority, so we must understand that democratic participation and regulation are necessary to avoid harmful effects on the environment and society. regulation of renewable energy sources at european level would address a number of problems hampering their development with a view to achieving a sovereign, efficient and clean energy model by 2050. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for granting aid for the production of electricity from renewable sources. i support this report because i believe that the guidelines contained in it are of high quality and highlight the potential that the development of renewable energy has for europe. i also think it is extremely important to establish a fundamental right to own energy production and consumption.
written. ‒ the renewable energy directive adopted on 23 april 2009 sets a binding target of 20% of energy consumption in the european union to come from renewable energy sources by 2020. renewable energy sources (wind, solar, hydro, ocean, geothermal, biomass and biofuels) are substitutes for fossil fuels and contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, diversifying energy supply and reducing dependence on unreliable and volatile fossil fuel markets, in particular oil and gas. while i support the use of these renewable energy sources, i believe that their regulation should remain the responsibility of the states and should not be dealt with at european level. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the renewable energy progress report as europe is on track to achieve its 2020 targets in this area. the commission has also concluded that the union's renewable energy targets are not sufficient to achieve the union's renewable energy targets. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
written. ‒ this report contains very good elements such as assessing the importance of energy efficiency in achieving the eu's energy and climate policy objectives, advocating the flexibility of this system to make it easier for member states to implement these policies, highlighting the importance of reducing unnecessary red tape, simplifying reporting rules and harmonising european legislation more effectively. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i personally would like to see this possible, but we must always bear in mind that european legislation applies to member states that span across different geographical regions and climatic zones, from finland in the north to spain and malta in the south of europe. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the climate change impact of the measures. these inconsistencies have made it impossible for me to support this resolution, as it sends the wrong message to union citizens, member states and investors.
written. ‒ greenhouse gas emissions in the eu decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. in the same period, eu gdp increased by 46%. with less and less impact on the climate, businesses and citizens are growing, creating jobs and tax revenue. i share the view of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety that, following the agreement reached at cop 21 in paris, the eu is more committed than ever to achieving its climate goals, and energy efficiency is one of the most effective ways of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. the 20% target for reducing carbon dioxide emissions is at risk. by 2020, only 17.6% of primary energy savings are expected. unfortunately, the 20% target will not be achieved unless existing eu legislation is fully implemented, more effort is made and barriers to investment are removed. i regret that the council of europe's target of at least 27% energy efficiency improvement by 2030 is unambitious compared to the binding 40% target adopted by parliament, which must be implemented in the form of individual national measures. i call on the commission to carry out a comprehensive cost analysis and adopt a societal interest perspective in line with its own better regulation guidelines.
written. ‒ the energy efficiency directive recognises the importance of energy saving. the european union is meeting its 2020 climate and energy targets, which include reducing carbon dioxide emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy sources, improving energy efficiency, and should maintain its leading role in this regard. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy efficiency. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment. in order to facilitate citizens' active participation in the energy system, it is important to remove economic, regulatory and administrative barriers.
written. ‒ the energy efficiency directive entered into force in december 2012. it commits member states to set indicative national energy efficiency targets by 2020 based on either primary or final energy consumption. the directive also lays down legally binding rules for final customers and suppliers of energy. member states may make those minimum requirements more stringent in order to maximise energy savings. however, i believe that it is unacceptable for the european union to establish a binding energy efficiency policy and that regulation of energy efficiency should be a competence of the member states and i voted against the energy efficiency directive implementation report.
written. the citizens of the united kingdom have voted to leave the european union. this is a major blow to both the uk and the eu. the consequences of such a decision are already in sight: disruption in financial markets, the fall of the pound, the rise of populism. i regret the outcome, but the will of the people must be respected. the uk has its own way now. the european union must remain united, the aim is to continue building a stronger and better european union. this is a message for all: we must bring europe closer to its citizens. we need to communicate more clearly the values of the european union and what the eu means in the daily lives of our citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the decision to leave the eu based on the outcome of the referendum held in the united kingdom because i believe that the process of leaving, the so-called brexit, should be carried out quickly and consistently, and that a new relationship between the uk and the eu cannot be established before the conclusion of the withdrawal agreement. i believe that any possibility of uncertainty that could jeopardise the interests of the union must be removed and that the european parliament must be involved in all stages of the withdrawal process. although the outcome of the referendum was not what most eu member states wanted, the will of the citizens must be respected and the future of the union must be given serious thought. problems will arise in many member countries, and there are already announcements of similar referendums in france and the netherlands. it is unclear whether the eu will go down the path of greater unity or of looser relations between its members. this resolution, which represents the alde group's position, takes account of the key aspects of the current state of this great problem, and i therefore support it.
written. ‒ i regret the decision to leave the eu taken by the people of the united kingdom, but their decision must be respected, which is why i have supported this resolution on the decision to leave the eu based on the outcome of the referendum held in the united kingdom. the links forged over the last 40 years are deep and the influence of the united kingdom on the development of european society during that period is invaluable. unfortunately, our partnership in its present form has come to an end because once a decision is made, there's no going back. faced with the historic decision of the citizens of the united kingdom that their country, after 43 years of membership of the european union, will no longer be part of the european family and will continue on its own path, we are faced with many challenges that we must address in an appropriate way. at this point, we must remain calm and resolute. the separation should be carried out as soon as possible and within the prescribed period of 2 years. we should also think carefully about the reasons that led to the discontent of the citizens of the united kingdom and its decision to leave the european union. each new situation is also a challenge to learn something new and come out of it better and stronger than we were. the great challenge now is to keep europe strong and united - with the uk as a reliable partner.
written. ‒ first, i take note of the wish of the citizens of the united kingdom to leave the eu. i believe the will of the people must be fully respected. i support the european parliament's resolution on the decision to leave the eu based on the outcome of the referendum held in the united kingdom. i am pleased that this resolution shows the unity of the four largest political groups (epp, s&d, alde, greens/efa) in the european parliament. it is this unity that will be important in reforming the european union in such a way as to make it better and more democratic. the european union has brought lasting peace to the european continent for the first time in its history. the european union and its single market bring prosperity and competitiveness to its member states and make them more influential on the world stage. so if there is something in the functioning of the european union that does not meet the expectations of citizens, i do not think that the solution is to destroy the project of a united europe, but i believe that we need to work together to reform the european union in such a way that it provides stability, social justice, sustainability, growth and jobs, overcomes long-term economic and social uncertainty, protects citizens and tackles the challenges of migration. as winston churchill said, "a pessimist sees the problem in every opportunity, and an optimist sees the opportunity in every problem". i was and remain a euro-optimistic!
written. ‒ the citizens of the united kingdom have voted in a referendum that their country should leave the european union. i agree with parliament's position as expressed in this resolution that their will must be respected. but it is for the member state to decide when to trigger article 50 of the treaty and i see no need to rush the whole process and to embarrass our partners given the fact that the current prime minister cameron has resigned from office following the referendum. if we want a clean, swift and transparent process for the uk's exit from the eu, that process must be led by political officials whose legitimacy is not in any way in question. i think that parliament, by rushing the whole process, is trying to avoid a debate about the reasons why the uk citizens want to leave the eu, which is very dangerous and will lead to new instability. i also cannot agree with calls for further integration. the response to the eu's deep political, identity and institutional crisis cannot be a simple mantra about 'more europe', especially when it is quite clear that the citizens of the european union do not want this. for the reasons i have just given, i voted against this resolution.
mr president, i would like to stress right from the start that we have here a typical example of a win-win and then another additional win-win combination because on the one hand we have a clear message of environmental protection and that is the first win. second, we finally have one very strong regulator that wants to protect health and that's second win. we have a third, and that is: we intend to enable a more competitive economy within the european union and in the world market. that is why i strongly support this report, that is why alde will vote for this report and we are confident that with this regulation we are finally positioning ourselves properly. we must remain the european union's leader in protecting the environment, the health of our fellow citizens and, of course, in the competitive economies of our member states and our overall economy and the single market.
madam president, the european union has a moral, and as a strong global actor, a political obligation to help people who have fled the disaster in our neighbourhood. but it is one thing to help according to one's means, and quite another to ask citizens to finance the long-term privileged status of hundreds of thousands of newcomers. while some member states are still facing economic challenges and struggling to stabilise public finances, taxpayers are being forced to finance all social rights, health services, education and even employment measures for a significant number of people. refugees are people who have sought refuge from war and will return home when the conflict in their country is finally over. the rest are migrants who have taken advantage of the chaos in the middle east to improve their economic situation. it is natural that these people want a better life in europe, and they should not be judged for it, but they must be governed by different rules.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. gericke, i listened carefully to what you said, unlike your other colleagues from the club who come from the same country. you spoke in a particular way about the need to support smes in your region. i would like to bring in another dimension that has been talked about a little bit, and you've kind of mentioned it. i think it's really important to support regional, city, local governments that can help the integration of refugees in the labor market, but also in education and other systems. do you agree with me?
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. thank you for agreeing to answer my "blue card" question. i wanted to ask you a very simple question: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must not forget that social action and education often pass through the hands of local and regional authorities.
mr president, i would like to support this report and the proposals we have very clearly from the outset because i really see them as something that will certainly contribute to the producers of the various products we are talking about, but especially to consumers. it's really confusing what the energy efficiency labels we've had so far and what we have now. the alphabetical, simple, very easy to understand marking is what we really need and in that context i want to express my full support. however, madam commissioner, what i would like to ask you is: why not, in this single market, for many other products and services, finally devise such a simple, fully acceptable way of indicating product quality or service quality or efficiency, in this case energy efficiency? i think that in the single market we should have as uniform a way as possible of marking the quality of services and products.
the european union prides itself on a high level of human and civil rights and rightly expects all its political, military and trade partners to share the same values and standards. the question, of course, is how to achieve that. i think that by using trade policy for these purposes, we are doing the most damage to ourselves. china, russia, the gulf states: none of them provide the protection of human and civil rights that the european union does. but we do trade with them, but we don't want to sign free trade agreements until the human rights situation in those countries improves. it's a hypocritical attitude that hurts our citizens and businesses the most because it makes imported products more expensive, and at the same time it makes it harder for us to export and expand our economy. if we are already trading with the whole world, including those countries where human rights are low, then let's look at how to facilitate that trade, and let's fight for human rights in other ways.
mr. president, the citizens of the united kingdom have voted to leave the european union. since the official results of the referendum were announced, we have heard a lot of angry, indignant and unconstructive comments from people who hold important political positions at the european level, and this case has shown that they are not up to the task. instead of discussing the reasons why the british decided to leave the union, we allow ourselves to be subjected to harsh words, threats and accusations from our permanent partners. the crisis of the european union as a project cannot be solved by forcing the british to leave as soon as possible in order to avoid a debate about the real reasons for brexit. in fact, this will only deepen the crisis, because without a broad democratic debate and the reforms that follow, the union will only face more discontent, referendums and departures.
madam president, two issues have dominated this council: one is the issue of migration, the other is brexit. when it comes to migration, it is clear, as mr tusk said, that we have gone from 7,000 migrants crossing the greek-turkish border every day to 50 today, and it is clear that a european response is the only solution. the second theme is brexit: i must express regret that this has happened, but at the same time i express joy that 27 countries have agreed and are determined to defend a common europe. it's something that we're very excited about, and i believe we'll continue to work together. when it comes to britain and the way they plan to deliver brexit, i agree with those who say: "the eu is not a menu they will choose from". if they want access to the single market, then they have to respect all four freedoms including freedom of movement, which is one of the fundamental european freedoms. i believe that we will continue to do so and that we europeans will have recourse to a new culture of responsibility for the future of europe. i agree with all those who say that we have good regulations, but we have to start applying the regulations, that is, implementing them, and we have to make sure that we know how to apply them and that our heads of state do not say one thing at the european council and another when they come to the national states. i agree that europe is the answer, i agree that there are myths about europe as our manfred weber said, and those myths are that europe is not democratic. europe is democratic, it is the answer and we have to stick together, concentrate on growth and jobs, as you said, and continue with the investment plan.
mr. president, brexit has happened. that's a fact. and we need to take into account what the people of the united kingdom have said. but the people of the united kingdom must also be aware that this brexit has largely happened on the basis of a lot of lies. that's why johnson and farage left, because they knew they had a positive result on the lie. i'm sorry about that, but the fact is that the uk, if it wants to stay with us, must respect the four freedoms of the european union. however, we also need to look at ourselves in the mirror. the european union needs to be more, we need more european union when we talk about the energy market, the digital market, the banking union. but it's not enough. it is not enough to have more, we need a better europe. those very words: a better europe. i believe in that and i hope that together we will create a better europe.
written. ‒ i support this report on the agreement between the eu and peru on the short-stay visa waiver. this is a significant step in deepening relations between the eu and peru, and another way of accelerating economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver, as this deepens the relations between the two countries. the visa-free stay in the territory of the other contracting party will allow for the strengthening of economic and cultural relations, tourism, and trade and investment. the union is the largest investor in peru and the conclusion of this agreement is of paramount importance in order to strengthen regional coherence, cooperation in the area of illegal migration and dialogue on fundamental freedoms and human rights. therefore, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the eu is peru's third trading partner in terms of imports (mainly machinery and transport equipment) and its main export partner (agricultural and food products and ores). in addition, the eu remains the largest investor in peru and is responsible for more than 50% of total foreign direct investment in sectors such as banking and finance. the republic of peru has a relatively stable democracy and in this respect is an important partner of the union in latin america. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver will deepen relations between the eu and the republic of peru and further strengthen economic and cultural relations and political dialogue on human rights and fundamental freedoms. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the visa waiver and the visa-free regime in the member states. the agreement also contains a joint declaration on cooperation in the area of illegal migration, thus enabling peru to become a key partner in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug and human trafficking. i consider that the abolition of short-stay visas is a necessary element in the process of rapprochement between the eu and peru, and i therefore supported this recommendation.
written. ‒ peru is one of the few countries in latin america whose citizens still require a visa to enter eu countries. if the european union wants to deepen relations with the republic of peru, it must begin a dialogue that will lead to the strengthening of economic and cultural ties and the abolition of visas. the eu is peru's third largest trading partner for imports (mainly machinery and transport equipment) and its main export partner (agro-food products and ore), so the signing of this agreement is very important as it will further intensify trade and mutual investment. peru is a country based on democratic principles, so the liberalization of the visa regime will also allow for political dialogue in the field of human rights. peru can also become a key partner in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug and human trafficking, which can be an important part of cooperation. i am convinced that the signing of this agreement will contribute not only to increased mobility but also to our better cooperation with each other and that both parties will benefit from it.
written. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of a deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement will also allow for the strengthening of regional coherence, as peru is one of the few countries in latin america whose nationals still require a visa and is a significant factor in the process of bringing european and peruvian peoples closer together. peru can become a key partner in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug and human trafficking, which can be an important part of cooperation. the interest expressed by this state in signing a strategic cooperation agreement with europol is a positive sign and can represent important progress in strengthening eu-peru cooperation in the fight against organised crime. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the necessary measures to ensure that the conditions for the granting of the visa waiver are fulfilled.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps based solely on the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity
‒ regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council replaced regulation (ec) no 539/2001 and moved the republic of peru to annex ii, which contains the list of countries whose nationals may cross the external borders of the member states without being required to be in possession of a visa. the amended regulation applies in all member states of the european union except ireland and the united kingdom. the situation in the republic of peru has been examined in detail and all possibilities that may arise from the visa liberalisation have been assessed. on 19 may 2015, the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to conclude the bilateral agreement as it had received a positive assessment following a further evaluation of the situation in peru. the agreement was signed on 14 march 2016 in brussels. the agreement guarantees visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and peru for a maximum period of 90 days in the territory of the other party. i support this recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver, as i consider that peru has fulfilled all the conditions for visa liberalisation and as i consider that this agreement benefits the free and unhindered movement of people between the two parties to the agreement.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the republic of peru because i believe that it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement provides for the possibility of visa-free travel for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. i believe that this agreement will boost tourism and contribute to strengthening trade and investment relations. i also believe that the agreement will have an impact on future cooperation between the european union and peru, but also that peru will become a key partner in the fight against organised crime.
written. ‒ i support this law because it will contribute to air quality and public health in the eu. its application will regulate the gases of various types of off-road machinery such as locomotives, excavators, river boats and generators. exhaust gases from machinery are the source of 15% of nox and 5% of particulate matter in the eu. since the share is significant, it is necessary to lay down transnational rules that are binding on all states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, given that such machinery contributes significantly to air pollution. this regulation will bring the european regulatory framework into line with current technological developments and ensure better protection of human health and the environment. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 167/2013. in this context, i consider it necessary to ensure flexibility for manufacturers and therefore support the extension of the transitional period proposed by the commission and the possibility to use replacement engines for a certain period of time in order to gradually remove obsolete engines from the market.
written. ‒ off-road mobile machinery includes a wide variety of internal combustion engines built into machines ranging from small handheld devices, construction machinery and generators to motor cars, locomotives and inland waterway vessels. these engines contribute significantly to air pollution and emit approximately 15% of nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of particulate matter in the eu. the aim is to gradually reduce emissions from new engines being placed on the market and thus eventually replace older engines that pollute more. this is expected to result in a significant overall reduction of toxic emissions to air, protecting human health and the environment. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the internal market and the impact of the new rules on the internal market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us free trade agreement and the implementation of the wto agreement on trade in services (wto agreement) and the wto agreement on trade in services (wto agreement). this regulation will not only have a positive impact on the environment and human health, but also, as part of this agreement, a new transitional clause will allow smes more time to adapt to the new provisions, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ reducing air pollution remains one of the european union's top political priorities. the thematic air pollution strategy to reduce the harmful effects of air pollution on human health and the environment for the period up to 2020 sets legally binding emission limit values at member state level for several air pollutants. however, 12 member states have exceeded those limit values and i consider that stricter requirements for internal combustion engines in off-road traffic would contribute favourably to the objectives of those policies. we must take care of the quality of the air we breathe and there must be no lack of political will to take care of our environment and thus directly of human health. air pollution is a global problem, and it is our task to achieve air quality that does not endanger human health, and we can do this by passing regulations like this one that will regulate emissions from off-road mobile machinery. however, we must show more than just the will to enact regulations. each of us, through our commitment to the environment, should set an example of preserving the environment as our common home and caring for the generations yet to experience the benefits of this land.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for emission limits for off-road mobile machinery which aims to regulate harmful emissions from engines that are incorporated into so-called off-road mobile machinery. these engines cover a wide range of machinery such as construction machinery, trains, chainsaws, generators, etc. emissions from engines in off-road mobile machinery contribute to a significant proportion of the total eu emissions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european standard for air quality control systems. the establishment of stricter emission limits for off-road mobile machinery is an essential part of the european union's policy framework for improving air quality and will help member states to reduce their required emissions, as proposed in the ambient air quality directive. while emission limits for road vehicles are getting higher and higher, equivalent measures for off-road mobile machinery are lagging behind. this is why the new legal framework on emissions from off-road mobile machinery is key to achieving the objectives of improving air quality in the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, as the commission's proposal for a regulation to improve air quality and create a barrier-free market, not only within the eu but also for the majority of trading partners worldwide. the selective approach, which differentiates between engine size and machine type, provides a good introduction to meeting these objectives. the primary objective of this report is to strike a balance between health and environmental concerns and to increase the competitiveness of the european manufacturing industry. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the safety of the union industry, in particular the impact of the new regulatory proposal on the safety of the union industry and the safety of the union industry. in view of the competition aspects, small and medium-sized enterprises, generators of many jobs, could be sensitive to the new situation and therefore some benefits should also be granted. it is also recommended that administrative burdens be kept to a minimum. the laws and formalities must evolve in line with the digital age.
written. ‒ today, a large number of urban areas in the union do not fully meet air quality standards. the primary objective of this report is to strike a balance between health and environmental concerns. the health and safety of our citizens, and particularly those who work with machinery every day, are key elements of this proposal as they are particularly exposed to emissions of pollutants. the second objective is to offer the industry long-term security and a stable regulatory environment. i support the proposal for this regulation because i believe it will contribute to improving air quality and creating a barrier-free market, not only within the union but also with our main trading partners around the world. the choice of this new legislative instrument in the form of a regulation offers a clear advantage over directives that take time to be transposed into national law.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, as this regulation will establish harmonised eu type-approval rules to ensure the functioning of the internal market in the wider context of the current review of the union's air quality policy. the primary objective of this report is to strike a balance between health and environmental concerns and to offer the industry long-term safety planning and a stable regulatory environment. i would also like to point out that the administrative burden will be minimised and that the internal market for an information system already in place will be used to the advantage of developing a new administrative system in order to avoid additional costs.
written. ‒ i support this report on the integration of refugees into society and their integration into the labour market. i welcome the commission's work on a common approach to labour market integration and social inclusion of refugees. i also call for effective integration policies, the provision of financial resources to guarantee the rapid and full integration of refugees into the labour market and their social inclusion in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on refugees: inclusion in society and integration in the labour market (2015/2321 ((ini)) as this report seeks to clarify a very complex existing problem and to offer solutions in terms of the inclusion of refugees in society and in the labour market. the refugee problem is complex and the eu is facing it at a time when it is also facing unemployment, especially among young people, and a decline in the social standards of the most vulnerable citizens. on the other hand, the eu is faced with fears and growing xenophobia. the issue of inclusion in society and the labour market is therefore a problem that needs to be addressed quickly. in this respect, i believe that cities and regions, i.e. those local communities that best understand the needs of the market, and in particular those of small and medium-sized enterprises, and that can best respond to the challenges of integration, should be involved. despite high unemployment, there are many sectors that are experiencing labour shortages and have been dependent on migration for decades. in addition, there are occupations for which there is a decline in interest among the local indigenous population. particular attention should be given to the early acquisition of the language and the education of the youngest, as well as to the acceptance of local customs.
written. ‒ the refugee crisis is primarily a humanitarian crisis caused by destabilisation in the eu's neighbourhood. it requires long-term solutions that guarantee social cohesion at local level and the successful integration of new migrants into our society. the report emphasises the importance of solidarity between all member states in integrating refugees into society and the labour market, as refugees can make a positive contribution to host societies through their economic activity. a holistic approach to migration requires synergies between the eu's external policies and the internal policies of the member states, such as employment, education and healthcare policies. the union's external action in the field of migration policy should be geared to the needs of the union's external action and to the needs of the union's external action. the objective of this report is to highlight the key issues, challenges and opportunities for the integration of refugees into society and to develop measures, procedures and proposals to achieve this. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's external assistance programmes to third countries, in particular the european union's external assistance programmes to third countries, and the union's external assistance programmes to third countries.
written. ‒ the exceptionally large wave of refugees that has swept across europe has left us all unprepared and we have not responded adequately in all segments to the demands of the refugee crisis. many refugees suffer from multiple health problems, psychosocial and post-traumatic disorders, many families are separated, and a large number of children have arrived completely alone, unaccompanied. in addition, they face many problems in the countries where they are trying to build a new life. i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the integration of refugees into society and the labour market because i believe that all people who have come to europe to save their lives and seek refuge need to be provided with help and the opportunity to live in dignity. we must address the fear that has enslaved our citizens and that has caused many refugees to face discrimination that makes it difficult for them to integrate into society in the difficult situation they find themselves in. it is also particularly important to give children access to education and integrate them as painlessly as possible into the education system of the member states, and by facilitating the recognition of qualifications acquired outside the european union, to give those able to work the opportunity to find employment so that they can feed their family through their work, gradually restoring their lost self-confidence and hope that a better and safer tomorrow is possible.
written. ‒ i believe that the eu's immediate response to this situation should be based on solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, as set out in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and a comprehensive approach that takes into account the need to improve safe and legal migration channels and that guarantees full respect for existing laws and fundamental european rights and values. i would like to stress that in order to manage the influx of refugees and asylum seekers, a permanent relocation mechanism applicable in all member states needs to be established immediately. i underline the fact that in order to facilitate the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees, a collaborative and accommodative approach needs to be developed and a number of serious and multidimensional issues addressed, such as: all forms of discrimination, language barriers as the first barrier to integration, skills valuation, different socio-economic, educational and cultural backgrounds, housing, health needs, including psychosocial support and post-traumatic support, family reunification, and a significant proportion of vulnerable groups among refugees, with a particularly worrying number of children, including unaccompanied children, persons with disabilities, older persons and women, all of whom need responses tailored to their specific needs.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ managing the refugee crisis, given its size, pace and complexity, is one of the main challenges facing the european union and european society. the refugee crisis is first and foremost a humanitarian crisis, with long-term effects on the labour market and civil society. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. the integration of refugees into society and the labour market can only be achieved if there is solidarity between all member states and their societies. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe it is important to give refugees and asylum seekers access to the market so that they can regain their human dignity and self-respect. the integration of asylum seekers and refugees into our society can only be achieved if the external and internal policies of the union and its member states are synergistic, complementary and fully and timely implemented on the basis of solidarity, fair sharing of responsibility and full respect for international and human rights.
written. ‒ i support this report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. i believe that the social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements have become of great importance to citizens and cannot be ignored.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility because there is still no regulatory framework for corporations to comply with their human rights obligations in relation to social and environmental standards. the private sector, like the public sector, must contribute to sustainable development and act in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. the report also promotes gender balance and seeks to ensure effective compliance with the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw). the eu has the potential to make a positive contribution to greater respect for human rights and sustainable development at global level through its trade policy, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ through its trade policy, investment and trade agreements, the eu can make a positive contribution to greater respect for human rights and sustainable development at global level. the eu's trade strategy can be a tool for promoting democratic values in third countries, a lever for promoting human rights, prohibiting forced labour and ensuring food security and the right to health, sustainable development and respect for high environmental standards. the report considers it essential to continue to respect the oecd declaration on international investment and multinational enterprises, ensuring that the guidelines in any new agreements between the eu and third countries take an active approach to addressing the problems. member states must engage with the un human rights council and the united nations environment programme (unep) in maintaining transnational corporate responsibility, in protecting human rights and environmental standards. as the eu is the world's leading actor in terms of national csr action plans, i believe it is essential to ensure transparency in access to information on corporate responsibility, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i supported the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility because i believe it is very important that we all come together to get closer to the sustainable development goals. protecting the environment must be one of our priorities because only by working together and striving at all levels and caring for our environment do we have a chance to preserve our planet for future generations. economic development is also important, we must take care of the economic stability of the union because this also leads to the economic stability of our citizens, bearing in mind that not all countries are equally economically developed and that those less developed need help. but we must not let the economic balance be the most important thing, we must take care to protect basic human rights, the rights and dignity of workers, equality and solidarity. i supported this report because it contains all that. however, i must say that i believe that more efforts are needed to make real and tangible progress.
written. ‒ i call on the commission and the member states to introduce a gender-sensitive approach in all their policies, including trade policy, and to ensure, inter alia, effective compliance with the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. the eu's success in tackling social and environmental issues in the context of its trade diplomacy is far ahead of other global trade players. but it is important to emphasize the importance of trade and foreign investment as important tools for achieving economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and the protection of human rights. i would like to remind you of the impact of trade and foreign direct investment on increasing prosperity in poor countries. i would remind you that there is no negligible link between increased prosperity and better protection of human rights, social rights and workers' rights. i call for increased transparency and accountability for so-called grassroots organisations (odozdo organisations) in the formulation of international trade rules and national trade policies, while ensuring consistency with respect to respect for labour and human rights in general, including women's rights. i believe it is crucial to continue our efforts to comply with the rules of the oecd declaration on international investment and multinational enterprises. i call on the commission to ensure transparency with regard to access to information on the management of undertakings and to put in place an effective reporting system.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps based solely on the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity
written. ‒ in 2010, parliament made recommendations to the commission on social and environmental standards and corporate responsibility, but some of these recommendations were not implemented. the trade and human rights nexus, on the one hand, and social and environmental standards, on the other, are integral to the union's economic and trade relations. member states shall integrate a gender-balanced approach into their policies, including trade policy. it is of the utmost importance for the european union to achieve cooperation at multilateral level. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that trade has a powerful role to play in promoting business opportunities, generating prosperity and increasing employment, and in fostering economic development, social progress, living standards, quality of life and, in the long term, raising standards in the field of human rights. the union is committed to gender mainstreaming in all policies, and men and women must have an equal share in the benefits of social change, economic growth and job creation.
written. ‒ i support this report and believe that europe really needs to be open to trade, which would create jobs and increase growth. but i also think that openness should be linked to making sure that ordinary people benefit from that trade. i therefore call on the commission to deliver on its promises, while welcoming the efforts to achieve communication as a significant step towards the values that our group has always stood for.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on a new, innovative and forward-looking strategy for trade and investment because it encourages faster market adjustment to frequent changes in world trade. this report welcomes the commission's new strategy 'trade for all: towards a more responsible trade and investment policy', which focuses on the responsible management of supply chains, the global digital market, trade in digital goods and services, fair and ethical trade and the social cost of trade liberalisation. i voted in favour of a report that seeks to better align the eu's trade objectives with other aspects of the union's external trade policy, while promoting transparency and respect for fundamental values and standards worldwide.
written. ‒ today, the eu is the richest economy in the world, but the centre of wealth creation in the future will shift to the east. the union's trade and investment strategy is based on the principles of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). in view of the external challenges, it is necessary to align the union's trade objectives with other aspects of its external policy. we need trade agreements that will be a means of strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights and social standards and environmental sustainability around the world. the rapidly changing global trade landscape requires regular updates of trade strategies and annual implementation reports to provide greater transparency to european citizens. i supported this report because i believe that the union's trade policy has geopolitical and economic importance in achieving globalisation, strengthening international standards, increasing access to foreign markets and creating jobs in the domestic market.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a 'trade for all' strategy, but i also have to agree that such a strategy has its drawbacks. globalisation and internationalisation in world trade have brought opportunities for growth and development for the eu, but also problems such as labour exploitation, women's exclusion, intellectual property infringement, the threat to smes and the rise of china, which threatens the eu market. the eu's trade and investment policy must create favourable outcomes in employment and wealth creation for citizens and businesses and, in dialogue with social partners, regulators and other groups, create the well-being of all those involved in the common trade policy. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force against china are in line with the principles of the union state aid rules. i am committed to the eu responding more effectively to the problems that have arisen and that trade defence instruments must be an integral part of the eu's trade strategy. through a stronger regulatory system, any unfair practices must be curbed and thus create a healthy business climate across the eu in order to preserve jobs and further the development of the member states. all this is clearly highlighted in this report on a new innovative and forward-looking trade and investment strategy, which i supported.
written. ‒ trade negotiations such as acta, ttip, ceta and tisa have brought european trade policy to the public's attention. many eu citizens equate globalisation with job losses and fear that the union's trade and investment policies could undermine european rules and standards. at the same time, the contribution of external trade to the development of the european economy is of fundamental importance. on 14 october 2015, the commission proposed a new trade and investment strategy for the european union entitled 'trade for all: towards a more responsible trade and investment policy'. the commission has set a clear objective in its 'trade for all' strategy to rapidly increase trade liberalisation and better integrate the eu into global value chains, and i therefore welcome the new, more innovative and forward-looking trade and investment strategy. today, the eu is the richest economy in the world. the eu's economic importance will decline: by 2050, the 28-member europe, soon to be 27, will contribute only 15% of global gdp, down from 23.7% in 2013. the center of wealth creation is shifting eastward, to the asia-pacific region. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy is of key importance for the european union, which is why i support this report.
written. ‒ i did not support the report on a new, innovative and forward-looking strategy for trade and investment, as the report has a weak view on attempts by industrialised countries to add new issues such as digitalisation, investment or competition before the conclusion of an agreement. the report shall support the commission in the protection and enforcement of the full range of intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, designs, geographical indications, designations of origin and pharmaceutical products. trade is still seen as key to generating growth, and given the weak activity in the eu, we need to turn to new markets, especially asia. trade and investment agreements need to be framed in such a way as to be a powerful tool for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability across the world. i do not think that this proposal will meet the criteria and therefore i have not supported this report.
written. ‒ many eu citizens equate globalisation with job losses and fear that globalised trade and investment policies could undermine european rules and standards. the union has the world's richest economy today, but its economic importance will decline by 2050, experts say, with europe's 28 member states contributing only 15% of global gdp. the new eu trade and investment strategy 'trade for all: towards a more responsible trade and investment policy' ensures greater transparency, engagement and accountability towards all stakeholders. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the union must reconcile its trade objectives with other aspects of its foreign policy. trade and investment agreements must be designed to be a powerful tool for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
written. ‒ i support this report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations. the report describes global trends in human trafficking, highlighting that trafficking is a highly profitable business and that it is the crime that is injecting much of the global economy and financial system.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations (2015/2340 ((ini)) as i support the efforts of the eu, the member states and partner countries to tackle this widespread and unfortunately lucrative criminal activity. the consequences of human trafficking are frightening. these include modern slavery, child exploitation, prostitution, begging, potential security risks, violations of basic human rights, one of the worst forms of denial of human dignity, murder, organ trafficking, and the growing strength of criminal organizations. it is not enough to deal with this problem only in the internal territory of the eu countries. the eu needs to develop its own policy, adopt a strategy and implement actions and strengthen cooperation with third countries where the source of the problem is located. the eu should support the development of a functioning state, legal, legislative and security system in the most vulnerable countries, particularly those in the neighbourhood, to be able to deal with criminal groups involved in trafficking in human beings. the fight against criminal networks involved in trafficking in human beings requires an international response where the eu needs to take a leading role, in particular in cooperation with countries in the immediate vicinity.
written. ‒ human trafficking, alongside illegal drugs and arms trafficking, is one of the most lucrative activities of organised crime in the world. according to the latest world slavery index, 35.8 million people worldwide are victims of modern-day slavery. some 14.2 million are forced to live in conditions of forced labor, 4.5 million suffer forced sexual exploitation, and 2.2 million are in a state-imposed position of forced labor. the report condemns the practice of trafficking in human beings and regrets that in many countries of the world, adequate legislation to effectively combat trafficking in human beings has not yet been enacted. trafficking in human beings is different from the smuggling of migrants and therefore a different legal and practical framework needs to be applied. it is important that strategies to prevent trafficking in human beings also take into account the factors that facilitate trafficking. the eu must develop a new strategy to combat trafficking in human beings with a stronger and more prominent external dimension for the period after 2016. in this context, recognition of victims of trafficking in human beings is important to enable them to exercise their rights, including access to justice, legal recognition of identity and citizenship, restitution of property, adequate compensation, and medical and psychological care and long-term integration assistance. i agree with the points made and therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ the modern age is characterised by all-round progress, particularly in the technological field, yet we are witnessing that we are not making the desired positive progress in the protection of fundamental human rights. it is frightening to think that in the 21st century, human beings are treated as commodities, that their uniqueness and their irreplaceable nature, which enriches society, is priced, that their dignity is brutally and cruelly trampled on, and that they are reduced to a commodity to be traded. i supported this report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations because in this area we really need to fight with all the means at our disposal and financial gain must never be above man and his dignity. i think, however, that more could have been done with this report, and i regret that my amendments, which condemn the trade in reproductive cells and fetal tissues and cells in the same way, were not adopted, because human life begins at conception and it is equally unacceptable and monstrous to reduce the organs and cells of the fetus to commercial objects. only when we put an end to these barbaric and intolerable acts of human trafficking can we call ourselves a society of progress, freedom and respect for man.
written. ‒ i condemn and reject the practice of trafficking in human beings, which is increasingly prevalent, causes human suffering and permanently and deeply affects all societies and economies. i emphasise the fact that trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery and a serious crime which constitutes one of the worst forms of human rights violations and is unacceptable in societies based on respect for human rights, including gender equality. moreover, i believe that the problem of trafficking in human beings should be approached in a comprehensive way, focusing not only on sexual exploitation but also on forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriages, child soldiers and trafficking in newborn babies. i regret the wide gap between existing legislation and its implementation, which includes, on the one hand, limited or non-existent access to justice and, on the other hand, the fact that offenders are not prosecuted. i condemn the fact that human trafficking is a very lucrative business activity and that the proceeds of this criminal activity are largely reinjected into the global economy and financial flows. i condemn the fact that the most structured and powerful international criminal organizations are involved in human trafficking and have created a truly international and extensive criminal network. i call on all states and relevant actors in the field to make the low-risk/high-reward activity of trafficking in persons a high-risk/high-reward activity.
written. ‒ i supported the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations, as trafficking in human beings, which is part of organised crime, is one of the worst forms of human rights violations because it enslaves people, deeply and permanently violates the dignity, integrity and rights of victims and affects their entire families and communities, and deliberately exploits people's plight such as poverty or isolation. complex and intertwined factors such as systemic and structural discrimination, human rights violations, poverty, inequality, corruption, violent conflict, land grabs, lack of education, unemployment and dysfunctional labour migration regimes increase the vulnerability of persons to exploitation and abuse by constraining their choices and diminishing their resources. the eu strategy to prevent trafficking in human beings, covering the period 2012 to 2016, recognises violence against women as a root cause of trafficking in human beings. trafficking in human beings is a regional or global problem that cannot always be solved at the national level alone. the phenomenon of human trafficking is not limited to countries considered less developed; it is also present in developed countries.
written. ‒ trafficking in human beings, which is part of organised crime, is one of the worst forms of human rights violations because it enslaves people, deeply and permanently violates the dignity, integrity and rights of victims and affects their entire families and communities, and deliberately exploits people's plight such as poverty and isolation. according to the international labour organization, illegal annual earnings from forced labour amount to about $150 billion, with an estimated 90% of victims exploited in the private sector and two-thirds of earnings coming from commercial sexual exploitation. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that these new strategies to prevent trafficking in human beings should take account of the factors that underpin it and of the patterns and circumstances that cause it to occur. we need to create an integrated approach that will involve different actors at national and international level.
written. ‒ smugglers and traffickers have taken advantage of the refugee crisis and significantly increased their criminal activities. the europol data on the 10 000 unaccompanied refugee and migrant children who have disappeared in europe since the beginning of the crisis is truly shocking and obliges us to take additional measures that will seriously endanger the smuggling and trafficking chains. but as i have repeatedly emphasized in this house, i do not think that the solution lies in opening borders, because that would attract new waves of migrants who can only reach our shores with the help of smugglers whose business would literally flourish. the european union must further strengthen frontex and cooperate more closely with third countries from which criminal groups operate and through whose territory illegal migrants arrive. at the same time, it is necessary to finally bring order to migration and asylum policies in order to discourage new waves of illegal migrants and to stop the demand for smuggling services.
the year 2013 is a long way off, madam president, when this multiannual financial framework was adopted. the world had other priorities then, europe was dealing with other issues. today our priorities have changed. so i'm going to stick to two principles. the first principle is flexibility in our budget because really our priorities today are the migrant crisis, the problems in the agricultural market of agricultural products, the problems we face with terrorism, but also many other things that have been happening in the last few months and even weeks. i mean, of course, brexit. on the other hand, there is the principle of simplification, especially when we talk about the use of cohesion policy funds. the european union's cohesion policy is a successful policy. it has helped many countries, especially the new members of the european union. we should continue with it, but the principle of simplifying the use of funds should certainly be incorporated into the new policy.
i would like to welcome commissioner georgieva and congratulate my colleagues jan olbricht and isabelle thomas on their work. the revision of the multiannual framework is a process in which we ask ourselves whether we are really achieving the objectives set at eu level and whether the current allocation of resources is appropriate to the challenges we have faced. our goals are clear: more employment, more educated population, social inclusion, poverty reduction, equitable development, innovation and technological development, digitisation, more investment, strengthening entrepreneurship, etc. the new challenges we have to face are also clear and highlighted in the report: migration, terrorism, massive youth unemployment, the agricultural crisis. how can existing sources of funds meet the growing needs? i don't think the answer is to increase your own income or reduce your national envelopes. the answer is in greater synergy between the different instruments that we are implementing through the multiannual framework. the answer is both in the greater community and in linking up with national budgets so that the european budget can add value in addressing national and common european challenges.
last year, in an 11-month period, some 1.5 million people did not regularly cross the external borders of the european union. the proposal for a european border and coast guard aims to ensure the integrated management of the external borders of the european union. this proposal should be supported in order to put it into practice as soon as possible and not to leave another unimplemented decision adopted since the beginning of the refugee crisis. but this agency has to respect some key elements: fundamental rights and the principle of non-refoulement. the independence of the officials who will handle complaints about possible human rights violations. the availability of translated documents on the rules and rights of asylum seekers and respect for the search and rescue principle. i would particularly stress that effective control of the external borders of the european union removes the need for internal border closures and should be in the interest of all member states. i therefore welcome the compromise on the inclusion of croatia, romania and bulgaria, because schengen should not be saved by using the wire or by directives to exclude those member states which are not yet fully part of schengen.
the fact is, madam president, that it is estimated that between january and november of 2015, more than 1.5 million people illegally crossed the border. this anomaly that has happened with this migration indicates that the european union was not ready and therefore we have to look for a solution. the solution is to manage migration, to manage this process, and that's why i'm advocating the creation of this european agency to protect europe's borders and coasts. it can also be called frontex plus or an agency with increased powers, but that is what we want: to have increased powers and increased responsibilities, and for the member states to cooperate more with each other. what i would like to say again today to those populists who are spreading the atmosphere that this is an invasion of national sovereignty is that i believe that this is not an invasion of sovereignty and that national states remain competent in their own area. this is just an aid and can be applied if needed, especially for those countries that have a long border. and just one final sentence: croatia would also like to become a member of the schengen area soon.
the great pressure of migrants, but also of organised crime, on the external borders of the union has not abated for years, and the recent migration crisis has made it an almost permanent condition to which it is necessary to adapt. the commission clearly understood that the old rules and operational frameworks were not adapted to the almost cataclysmic circumstances and therefore it did not admonish those member states that were the first to be hit by the wave of migration and thus only contributed to the chaos. the time has come for a comprehensive solution. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the necessary information is provided to the member states. as i support any initiative aimed at increasing the security of the external borders without making border controls more difficult or impossible for the competent authorities of the member states, this proposal has my support.
madam president, there is no doubt that this is a great initiative and i support it wholeheartedly. it has two dimensions: the humanitarian dimension of rescuing people who may be stranded at sea, but also the repressive dimension towards criminals who took advantage of the situation when migrants fled their countries and ended up, unfortunately, often in the waters of the mediterranean. however, my esteemed mr. commissioner, i would like to highlight a new element of this new border and coast guard agency. and that is the fact that, for example, my country croatia is also today on the border of the eu. and we need good cooperation with the candidate countries in the western balkans. please note these details, find a way to involve these countries at least indirectly in the work of this agency, because as we know, the western balkan countries are 'closed' to other eu member states. please find a way to involve them.
madam president, this directive on cybersecurity is one of the best examples that those who advocate breaking up the european union are actually running out of time. because, ladies and gentlemen, today, news and information are no longer being passed on to the cavalry as some might like. today it's completely different. the internet knows no boundaries. in this context, high cybersecurity is essential for our economy, for what security means within the eu, but also beyond. the security of the hardware, the software, the cyber infrastructure that we need today is just as important, maybe even more important than the electricity or the water supply, because that supply gets disrupted, and here we can have unpredictable negative consequences.
on behalf of the ecr club of representatives. madam president, a group of european conservatives and reformists supports synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020 with the aim of creating added value and maximising the impact of investment. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i would like to take this opportunity to say how disappointed i am that the funding for horizon 2020 has been partly diverted to finance the juncker investment plan, which has so far not delivered the expected results. we believe that any further withholding of horizon funding would be extremely damaging and would drastically affect the expected results of this programme. the european union must set its priorities, and programmes to foster long-term scientific excellence and innovation for a stable future economy should take precedence over short-term grand political plans that are on shaky ground from day one. however, we are of the opinion that the funds earmarked for cohesion policy in this financial period should not be used to finance horizon 2020 as this would potentially jeopardise another long-term important union policy.
madam president, synergy is certainly a very nice word. i often like to use it in my political speeches, too. but here i would like to make a cautionary statement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary impact of the new financial perspective is not underestimated. that's why i'm saying be careful. then let's bring in another player. we are putting in the european investment bank, we are putting in part of the juncker fund to support many important projects that are financed by the structural funds and that are important for the cohesion countries and for the development of infrastructure in the new member states. let's find a creative formula and create synergy from multiple sources, not just these two sources, because that's not going to be enough. we'll just transfer the money and we'll be short of money where we really need it.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the slovak presidency. we are aware that you are coming at a very difficult time for europe, at a time of brexit, economic crisis, migration, terrorism, all of the things that are affecting europe, and that is a big challenge. as i come from croatia, i am trying to understand the reasons why you have mentioned these four points of the programme and, contrary to those who think you are too pragmatic, i think that this is the right solution, that you are turning to the citizens, that you want the citizens to understand the concrete interests of the european union and the concrete benefits that the european union brings. that's what you want to convey with these four points. my only question is how do you intend to reconcile the interests of the visegrad group and the rest of the european union? i believe that you will be able to reconcile this rationally and reasonably and i believe that you will understand the doubts that our colleagues have raised here. however, i believe in the slovak presidency, which i really want to congratulate, but i stress that one of the pillars of the european union is solidarity. i believe that this will develop little by little in slovakia and that we will all be together in solidarity and that we will develop the european union together, now with 27 member states.
mr fico, at the beginning of your speech you said that europe had been at peace for 71 years, that the european union was the achievement of peace and security. you're right in a way, but not all the way. you have forgotten that a bloody war was fought in the territory of the former yugoslavia only 20 or 25 years ago. why am i talking about this? because you didn't mention enlargement and i understand you, because it's not the most popular word in the european union right now. but please, take care of the countries of the western balkans, take care of the positive developments that are happening in the western balkans today. relations between serbia and albania are beginning to be normal this is a big news in the balkans, worry about bosnia and herzegovina because of the possible dangers coming from that country, and here i am thinking above all of terrorism, worry about what the balkan route meant, because i am sure that the slovak presidency has a special sensitivity to this.
written. ‒ i support this report on the participation of azerbaijan in eu programmes, taking into account the draft council decision, the draft protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement, the council's request for assent, and the recommendation of the foreign affairs committee.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes (05616/2014 c8-0043/2014 2013/0420(nle)) as this document allows the use of certain eu programmes by azerbaijan in the same way as provided for in cooperation with third countries. the terms and conditions shall be agreed separately for each programme and separate agreements shall be accepted. the eu and azerbaijan have a partnership based on cooperation within the eastern partnership but also on important cooperation in the field of energy. there is also cooperation in the field of the european neighbourhood policy. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular those that are most vulnerable to the financial crisis.
written. ‒ the objective of the protocol is to establish financial and technical rules allowing azerbaijan to participate in certain eu programmes open to third countries. azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the union. the eu-azerbaijan relations are not limited to energy security, however, and should be seen in the context of all areas of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership framework, with the rule of law and democracy as a basic precondition for cooperation. as the protocol will allow the gradual opening or strengthening of participation in certain union programmes for azerbaijan and offers an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific development and sectoral cooperation, i supported this protocol.
written. ‒ formal cooperation between the eu and azerbaijan has been ongoing for some 20 years. as the negotiations have progressed in the right direction, there is no reason why this cooperation should not continue to benefit both parties. the eu promotes an active neighbourhood policy to network and consolidate its foreign policy, and azerbaijan's neighbours, armenia and georgia, have already concluded a partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu. azerbaijan has already participated in eu programmes and has expressed its desire to continue participating and, as a result, contributes financially to the eu budget. the agreement also implies a certain degree of caution, as it sets out specific conditions for each individual programme, including a financial agreement that specifies the precise amount of eu assistance to be provided to azerbaijan. the commission may also carry out financial controls or other administrative investigations in the event of undesirable consequences of such legal irregularities. all mechanisms are in place and the conditions are met, and i therefore supported the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes.
written. ‒ the objective of this recommendation is to enable the republic of azerbaijan to participate in european union programmes open to third countries through certain technical rules and financial support. the commission started the gradual opening of the european union programme to neighbouring countries in 2006. this approach was welcomed by the council and began to develop more intensively between 2007 and 2011. i consider that the opening of borders with regard to participation in european union programmes is of paramount importance and therefore welcome the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes. the union and azerbaijan have been negotiating to upgrade their relations since 2010. azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the union, however the importance of their relationship is not limited to energy security, but the importance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership. the aim of this agreement is to encourage cooperation in sectors which should be of benefit to society. the rule of law, human rights and democracy are values on which the eu's relations with third countries should be based. i support the conclusion of this protocol as i consider that it will lay down the financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries and will determine the specific conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in each individual project.
written. ‒ i supported the framework agreement between the european union and azerbaijan as it sets out the financial and technical rules allowing azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the union's energy policy should be based on the principles of the union's policy on energy, energy efficiency and renewable energy. since the rule of law, human rights and democracy are fundamental principles on which the union's relations with third countries should be based, i believe that the agreement will promote sectoral cooperation and maintain people-to-people relations that are beneficial to society.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: introduction of the surplus from the financial year 2015 because that amendment will reduce the member states' contribution to the union budget on the basis of gni for 2016. the commission has also received a number of letters from the european parliament and the council, including from the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, which have been sent to the european parliament and the council. i also believe that the revision of the multiannual financial framework should give serious consideration to the possibility of using any surplus generated for the financial needs of the union budget instead of adjusting member states' gni contributions, and i therefore support this report.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the surplus is mainly due to the realisation of surplus revenue of eur 980 million, unspent expenditure of eur 187 million and exchange rate differences of eur 182 million. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the implementation of this regulation. the adoption of the draft amending budget will lead to a reduction of the share of member states' gni contributions to the union budget in 2016 by eur 1 349 million, and member states are therefore encouraged to use this contribution from the repayment of funds to fulfil their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and to support union funds dedicated to that crisis. the union budget should allow for the use of any surplus resulting from the non-implementation of appropriations or from penalties imposed on certain undertakings for infringements of union competition law, instead of adjusting contributions on the basis of gdp. this is a way of responding to the budgetary needs, in particular the lack of funds for payments, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i have supported the council position statement on draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: carrying forward the surplus from the financial year 2015. i consider that the surplus of eur 1 349 million from the financial year 2015 represents a significant amount that can greatly help to address the current problems of the union and to ease the burden on the 2016 budget. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. this is particularly important for countries such as croatia, which have a significant government budget deficit and benefit from any reduction in the budget burden. i also fully support the initiative that in the revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) in the future, instead of adjusting the gni contribution in the union budget, it should be possible to use any surplus if the financial needs of the budget are not thereby met, especially in the context of the lack of payment appropriations.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the adoption of draft amending budget no 2/2016 will lead to a reduction of the share of member states' contributions to the union budget under gni in 2016 by eur 1 349 million. the member states should use that contribution from the recovery to fulfil their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and to contribute to the two union mutual funds dedicated to that crisis in the same way as the union. i welcome draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016, but note with concern that in the spring of 2016, member states paid only eur 82 million to the african trust fund and only eur 69 million to the madad trust fund for the crisis in syria, while the union contribution to the former is eur 1,8 billion and to the latter is more than eur 500 million.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation of the council position report on draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: carrying over the surplus from the financial year 2015, as the purpose of draft amending budget no 2/2016 is to carry over the surplus from the financial year 2015 of eur 1 349 million to the 2016 budget. the surplus is mainly due to the realisation of surplus revenue of eur 980 million, unspent expenditure of eur 187 million and exchange rate differences of eur 182 million. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european union agency for asylum and the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights.
written. ‒ the draft amending budget plans to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of money from the 2015 financial year of eur 1,3 billion. the introduction of the previous year's surplus into the 2016 budget should reduce the gdp contributions of the member states to the european union for the current year. however, the european parliament calls on the member states to redistribute surplus money to alleviate the refugee crisis. i support the report on the draft amending budget because i believe that the surplus would be much better used if it were redirected to finance projects aimed at alleviating the refugee crisis and other problems which are currently a higher priority for the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the statement of position of the council on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2016: carry-over from the financial year 2015 which aims to carry over to the 2016 budget the surplus from the financial year 2015 of eur 1 349 million. the adoption of the draft amending budget will lead to a reduction of the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the union budget in 2016 of eur 1 349 million. the member states should use that contribution from the recovery to fulfil their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and to contribute to the two union mutual funds dedicated to that crisis in an equal manner to the union.
written. ‒ i support this report on a high common level of security of network and information systems across the union. the directive is the first comprehensive eu cybersecurity regulation and its main objective is to improve the security of the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems across the union in the face of the increasing frequency of hacking attacks and the need for greater cooperation between member states in the field of cybersecurity. in this context, clear rules for joint cooperation between all member states and better risk management for operators of critical infrastructure are needed. the risk sectors are energy, transport, banking and financial sectors, but also healthcare and digital market operators. furthermore, it is essential to ensure the exchange of information between the public and private sectors, and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the objective of the proposed code is to ensure a high common level of network and information security (nis). this means improving the security of the internet, the private networks and information systems that support the functioning of our society and economy. the proposal requires all member states to ensure a minimum level of national capacity by setting up competent authorities for network and information security (nis), establishing computer security incident response teams (csirts), adopting national strategies and national cooperation plans for nis, and obliging operators in certain sectors, including internet service providers, energy, transport, financial markets, health, as well as public administration administrators, to share nis incident reporting and adopt appropriate measures to secure nis. the proposal introduces a network and information security (nis) obligation to create a level playing field and close existing loopholes, which is why i supported this proposal.
written. ‒ i support this resolution and recommendation for second reading because the objective of the proposal for a directive on measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems across the union is for all member states to ensure a minimum level of national capacity which will collectively contribute to the establishment of a higher level of security of network and information systems. this is also important for croatia as it would contribute to the cooperation of national competent authorities within a network allowing for secure and effective coordination, including coordinated exchange of data and detection and response at eu level. the commission has also provided a report on the implementation of the nis in the member states, including the nis report on the implementation of the nis in the member states. it is good that member states will be obliged to ensure that digital service providers take appropriate security measures and notify incidents to the competent authorities, which will protect users. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the form of grants and loans, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the form of grants and loans.
written. ‒ network and information security is becoming increasingly important for our economy and society. network and information security is also an important prerequisite for creating a trusted environment for global trade in services. however, information systems may be affected by security incidents, such as human error, natural disasters, technical failures and malicious attacks. these incidents are becoming larger, more frequent, and more complex. the commission's public consultation and research on 'improving network and information security in the european union' found that 57% of the representatives of companies and entrepreneurs surveyed had experienced network and information security incidents in the past year that had a serious impact on their activities. the lack of network and information security can put vital services at risk, depending on the integrity of the network and information systems. it can bring businesses to a standstill, generate significant financial losses for the eu economy and have a negative impact on social welfare. i therefore support the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council of the european union on measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems across the european union.
written. ‒ the european parliament adopted at first reading a draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems across the union. in doing so, parliament took into account the opinion of the european economic and social committee. i support the draft legislative resolution of parliament because i believe that the report is well written and reflects our political views.
written. ‒ believing that digital technology and the internet are the backbone of today's society and economy and are key to ensuring prosperity and freedom, i supported this recommendation. in order to ensure consumer confidence and to kick-start the online economy, a high level of network and information security is needed across the european union. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament and the council with the necessary information to enable them to take decisions on the implementation of this regulation. i believe that a high level of network and information security will preserve the smooth functioning of the internal market and boost growth.
written. ‒ the consumer should be able to read the consumption at any time in order to control it. it is estimated that the average household could save from 10 to 30 percent on heating and cooling alone. also, switching suppliers is very expensive, and in some countries, waiting for a replacement can take months. i am particularly pleased with the new initiative to simplify energy classes to make it easier for consumers to navigate. it was shown that consumers react less to the a+++ label and are not willing to allocate money to the difference between the a+ and a+++ grades. that's why the a to g scale goes back. i'm pleased that the energy committee has adopted the socialist and democrat proposal to test the devices in natural conditions, not in laboratories.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the vote on the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu because i consider that further work is needed on the report in order to analyse in more detail the simplification of the regulatory framework and the respect of market rules across the union. more attention should also be paid to the database and to changes in values, and i therefore support this delay.
written. ‒ energy labelling is environmentally beneficial because it allows consumers to compare products in terms of their energy efficiency and to take economic and environmental considerations into account when making purchasing decisions. the current energy labelling system has become opaque due to the over-production and diversification of the highest energy classes, which confuses consumers. this report aims to achieve greater transparency of product information on the eu market. the commission proposal aims to replace the current energy efficiency labelling framework and to introduce a mechanism for changing the value of energy efficiency labels. the proposal also provides for a product database and sets out the obligations of the economic operators involved. the combination of the models of products available on the market and the technological development of the product group in the energy efficiency classes is proposed, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ energy efficiency in the context of european energy and climate policy is an important pillar in achieving the objectives of increasing europe's energy independence from energy imports, but also in achieving the objective of keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c by progressively limiting greenhouse gas emissions. achieving these goals is the responsibility of every eu citizen to contribute to a better tomorrow through their informed choice of products. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection. the energy efficiency of buildings and energy-related services is to be assessed in the light of the energy performance of buildings and energy-related services provided by the member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. in order to monitor information and to make the necessary product information available to consumers, i consider it necessary to establish a database on the energy efficiency of household products, and given that this level of administrative burden is necessary, i supported the proposal to decentralise the management of the database. i support this commission proposal because it is precisely an important part of the whole legislative concept that supports european energy and climate policy, and which will be most visible to consumers.
written. - a few months ago, the car industry emissions scandal shocked all european citizens. among other things, their trust has been especially violated. by looking at this unfortunate event from a broader perspective, we must try to regain that trust. the specific proposals of the current legislative initiative can be a step in that direction. since its introduction, the label has enabled citizens to better understand the environmental impact of products and their life cycle. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has identified a number of shortcomings which, if addressed, could lead to significant additional energy savings. i support the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. we cannot remain the only major market without the system of mandatory central product registration and public database that the us, china, australia and others introduced a few years ago. a well-designed database is a real driver of the change we need to strengthen the role of citizens as protagonists in the energy transition in the european union. it will provide access to information, increase our ability to monitor market developments in real time (and improve legislation accordingly) and increase the effectiveness of our 'safety mechanisms'. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of consumers and consumers' interests, in particular by ensuring that the union's policies are consistent with the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, as the existing directive contains a number of shortcomings which, if corrected, could lead to significant additional energy savings. it is necessary to make strong legislation that will not be subject to different interpretations when implemented in the national legislation of the member states. the report states that the labels that are currently confusing to citizens need to be adapted and therefore proposes to move to a to g classes within a reasonable time (5 years). it is also necessary to establish within the information and communication system a product database as a platform where 100% of the information relevant to consumers is kept up to date and is made accessible, which will result in a significant increase in consumer confidence. similar databases already exist in the us, china and australia. in order to restore public confidence, it is necessary to ensure market surveillance, safeguard measures, product conformity assessment and consumer information campaigns. as a result of these efforts, and in the interests of better regulation of energy labelling, i voted in favour of this report.
written. ‒ since the introduction of the energy efficiency label for individual products, citizens have been able to better understand the environmental impact of products. directive 2010/30/ec highlights a number of shortcomings that, if addressed, would further improve energy savings. the report seeks to strike a balance between citizens, industry and other stakeholders and between the emphasis on technology and social awareness. the rapporteur believes that there is a way forward which is not to the detriment of anyone but to the benefit of a better common future. the report shall aim to move to energy efficiency classes a to g within a reasonable timeframe. i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu as i believe that the guidelines set out in the report promote environmental standards and enhance the energy efficiency of products.
written. ‒ energy efficiency is a key element of the european union's 2030 climate and energy policy framework and is the most important factor for reducing energy demand and limiting greenhouse gas emissions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european energy label system, including the establishment of a european energy label system, the establishment of a european energy label system and the establishment of a european energy label system. i therefore supported the proposal which replaces the existing energy labelling framework and introduces a mechanism to abolish energy efficiency classes, but also proposes a ten-year review.
written. ‒ i support this report on the european border and coast guard. the first reading of the proposed treaty will establish a european border and coast guard. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's external borders. the strengthening of this agency ensures that the principles and values of the eu are upheld in all aspects of its work.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, regulation (ec) no 863/2007 and council decision 2005/267/ec (com ((2015) 0671 c8-0408/2015 2015/0310 ((cod)) as the migration processes that have taken place at the eu's borders in recent years require urgent action to ensure that the eu protects its borders and its security in a timely and effective manner and rescues migrants who are trying to enter the eu in search of a better life more effectively. the eu needs an integrated system for the management of its external borders. this also allows for the protection of internal borders and the better functioning of the schengen system. the establishment of a european border and coast guard shall link the european border and coast guard agency with the authorities of the member states responsible for border management. migration problems cannot be a burden only for those member states which are at the eu's external borders. i support better cooperation and coordination between the competent national authorities and relations of solidarity between member states and a stronger integration of all those activities which contribute to the strengthening of the european union.
written. ‒ the proposal for this regulation states that the solution to the problem of border management and the increasing migratory flows is to provide additional resources for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders, the european asylum support office and europol from contributions from member states in the form of human resources and technical equipment. the union policy on external border management shall aim at the development and implementation of european integrated border management at national and union level. the european border and coast guard, consisting of the european border and coast guard agency and the national authorities responsible for border management, shall be based on the sharing of information, capacities and systems at national level. in this regard, it is necessary to develop frontex into an agency with shared responsibility for the management of the external borders. this proposal provides for a comprehensive revision of the mandate of frontex by significantly extending its competences, introducing the concept of a european border and coast guard, while respecting the sovereignty of the member states. it is important to ensure adequate control of the schengen external borders, a high level of security within the schengen area and at the same time to guarantee the freedom of movement of persons within the union. i supported this proposal because i believe it will contribute to increasing solidarity between member states, strengthening integration in border management and helping to prevent crisis situations.
written. ‒ the european union is facing a major migration crisis with multiple consequences, and the member states most affected by the wave of migration in certain segments are unprepared. this has led to the situation that some countries, despite the schengen system, have introduced additional internal border controls, which was an indicator that the system should be strengthened. in order to ensure the more efficient functioning of schengen, to maintain a high level of security within the european union, to tackle irregular migration flows, which have multiplied in recent months, and to combat serious cross-border crime (in particular the criminal offences of smuggling of persons, trafficking in human beings and terrorism), i have supported this regulation on the european border and coast guard. i believe that better cooperation in the protection of the external borders of the european union will be achieved and that the merging of the competences and protection mechanisms of the related bodies is a good step towards increasing efficiency. in order to ensure that the agency is able to fulfil its tasks, it is necessary to establish a european border and coast guard agency. the legislative framework was certainly necessary because the protection of our borders must be one of the priorities, but care must be taken that no segment of it affects the competence of the member states in matters of defence.
written. ‒ i support in principle the proposal to establish a european border and coast guard which seeks to ensure adequate control of the schengen external borders as a prerequisite for effective migration management, a high level of security within the schengen area itself and at the same time guaranteeing the freedom of movement of persons within the union. i believe that it will lead to increased solidarity between member states, strengthen integration in border management and contribute to the prevention of crisis situations at the external borders. the proposal responds to the difficulties identified, whether due to the fact that member states are not prepared or able to make border guards and equipment available for deployment by the agency upon request, or due to the lack of effective control and preventive measures, or due to the fact that member states have not activated the mechanisms in place. in conclusion, i would like to stress that external border control remains one of the main ways of protecting the area without internal border control and should be implemented in the interest of all member states. that is why i am particularly pleased that a compromise has been reached which also includes croatia, romania and bulgaria. schengen must not be saved by leaving out by wire or by directives those member states which are not yet fully part of schengen!
written. ‒ i did not support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, regulation (ec) no 863/2007 and decision 2005/267/ec, as the new regulation proposes a solution to reduce the impact of the migration crisis currently facing the european union. the migration crisis is caused by an increase in conflict and war, poor quality of life, and the failure of a country's education, health, and other basic systems to function. we need to work on addressing the causes of the migrant crisis, not increasing the powers of border and coastguards to deal with the consequences, not the cause of the problem. it should be noted that the schengen area, an area comprising twenty-six countries without internal border controls and in which the free movement of persons is possible and which is rightly considered by many to be one of the greatest and most visible achievements of european integration, needs to be further preserved. we have seen some schengen countries reintroduce internal border controls in response to secondary movements of illegal immigrants, which are considered a threat to internal security and public order. an effective border control system is needed, but under the responsibility of the member states themselves, rather than through the establishment of a european border and coast guard.
written. ‒ one of the greatest and most visible achievements of european integration is the schengen area, which covers the territory of twenty-six countries without internal border controls and in which the free movement of people is possible. eight schengen states have reintroduced internal border controls in response to the movements of illegal migrants, which are considered a serious threat to internal security and public order. in response to the unprecedented migration crisis, the commission presented a proposal last december to establish a european border and coast guard. it provides for a comprehensive revision of the mandate of frontex by significantly extending its competences. the commission proposes to introduce the concept of a european border and coast guard, which would be embodied by a new european border and coast guard agency, replacing frontex, and the national authorities of the member states competent in the field of border management, including coast guards, but only for the purpose of carrying out border controls. i support the adoption of this regulation because i believe that its adoption would strengthen controls at the external borders and re-establish the previous situation of no border controls within the schengen area.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency (com ((2015) 0667 c8-0404/2015 2015/0313 ((cod)) as it represents an excellent example of meeting the common needs of eu citizens more effectively, through better cooperation and coordination between the competent national authorities and the coordinated and integrated operation of existing european joint services. the agency shall cooperate with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency and provide support to the competent national authorities. this will lead to better exchange of the necessary information, data analysis, more efficient use of advanced technologies and the necessary infrastructure, training of personnel, better use of existing capacities and, ultimately, better safety at sea.
‒ the european maritime safety agency, in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, shall provide support to national competent authorities performing coast guard functions at national, union and, where appropriate, international level. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 100000000000 for the period 2014-2020. this report adopts a first reading position, taking over the commission's proposal, and i therefore supported this report.
‒ the european maritime safety agency is an important institution providing technical assistance and support to the european union and the member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to navigation, but cooperation with other agencies in maintaining safety is crucial at this time. the european maritime safety agency, in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, shall provide support to national competent authorities performing coast guard functions at national level. i supported this report on the proposal to amend the regulation establishing the agency as it will contribute to strengthening european cooperation related to coast guard functions and improve cooperation and coordination between relevant eu agencies. it is important that the amended regulation allows for the training and exchange of personnel and also includes the enhancement of information exchange and cooperation regarding coast guard and emerging maritime risks, it is equally important to distinguish the powers of the different agencies and to establish cooperation between agencies on the basis of the mandate. the proposed amendments are good and useful, and i have therefore supported them.
the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency is just one of a series of different measures proposed by the commission to strengthen the protection of europe's external borders, including cooperation at european union level in the field of coast guard. this legislative proposal provides that the european maritime safety agency, in cooperation with other european union agencies and national authorities, will perform a coast guard function at national and european union level and, where appropriate, at international level, by improving the sharing of information between coast guards of different member states, carrying out surveillance and providing communication services based on the latest technologies, making recommendations, as well as educating coast guard personnel, providing professional training, supporting the exchange of personnel between different member states, all with the aim of strengthening cooperation between coast guards of different member states of the european union, and so on. given the importance of responding to the current migration crisis affecting the european union, i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency, as there is a need to harmonise emsa regulations when deploying a new european union border and coast guard. the main task of the safety agency is currently to facilitate cooperation between member states to ensure the safety of vessels, including offshore oil and gas installations. to ensure this, emsa has established a number of satellite surveillance programmes, such as safe sea net.
‒ the european parliament, after consulting the committee of the regions, the report of the committee on transport and tourism and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, adopts the commission proposal at first reading for the establishment of a european maritime safety agency. i support this proposal for a regulation because i believe that the european maritime safety agency will make a significant contribution to increasing safety on european seas and to establishing a rapid response system in the event of accidents.
written. ‒ as this proposal is in line with the objectives of the european maritime policy until 2018 and the european maritime safety agency which was established to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and security and to prevent and respond to pollution from ships, i supported this report. i believe that this initiative will improve european cooperation related to coast guard functions by developing cross-sectoral cooperation between the european border and coast guard agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency in order to enhance synergies between these agencies and ensure the provision of more efficient and cost-effective multi-purpose services to national competent authorities performing coast guard functions. i also believe that the adoption of this report will help to strengthen controls at the eu's external borders.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency because i consider that the current system of cooperation between european agencies is quite tricky and lacks interoperability. this proposal will seek to enhance the readiness of the european union to respond to maritime threats and hazards and to improve cooperation between european agencies, as well as between all civil and military actors. i voted in favour of this report because it will attempt to harmonise maritime surveillance, prevention and monitoring activities in order to gain a better understanding of the maritime situation and to support the adoption of coherent, effective and cost-effective measures.
written. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to enable european agencies faced with major accidents at sea to coordinate their operations and exchange the information needed for their work. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency must be given the opportunity to pool their operational capacities for the purpose of enhanced maritime safety and security. the european fisheries control agency, although involved in the control of operations in the fisheries sector, cannot currently operate in other maritime areas. this proposal seeks not only to enhance the readiness of the european union to respond to maritime threats and hazards, but also to improve cooperation between european agencies and all civil and military actors. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. i supported this proposal as it states that the powers and responsibilities of the european fisheries control agency must be aligned with those of the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency.
written. ‒ in order to improve cooperation and coordination between the competent authorities performing coast guard functions, i support the proposal to amend the regulation establishing the community fisheries control agency by supplementing the mandate of the european fisheries control agency with an article on coast guard cooperation. the clear-cut tasks assigned to the european fisheries control agency, such as the exchange of information, the provision of surveillance and communication services, protection, rescue, fisheries control, border control and capacity allocation, will certainly achieve the purpose and objective of the establishment of such an agency. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) for the period from 2014 to 2020. i believe that the extended mandate of the fisheries control agency will contribute to maritime safety and protection of the seas, that cooperation between agencies will be of a higher quality and simpler, and that it will provide support to national competent authorities performing coast guard functions at national, union and international level. i also believe that this initiative will improve cooperation and coordination between the relevant authorities of the member states, the eu agencies and other bodies performing a coast guard function.
written. ‒ national bodies performing the coast guard function are responsible for a large number of tasks in different areas such as protection, security, rescue at sea, border control, customs supervision, environmental protection and general law enforcement. today, there are 316 such national authorities at eu level. they're working together through 70 different structures. the current system of cooperation is therefore fragmented and fraught with shortcomings such as a lack of information on the powers, responsibilities and capabilities of other national authorities, a lack of interoperability of systems and assets, and a limited planning and joint operations. this proposal should coordinate surveillance, prevention and maritime surveillance activities at eu level in order to gain a better understanding of the maritime situation and support the adoption of coherent, effective and cost-effective measures. the commission proposes to supplement the mandate of the european fisheries control agency with an article on coast guard cooperation in line with that objective. i welcome this proposal to align the powers and responsibilities of the european fisheries control agency in the area of cooperation between authorities performing a coast guard function with those of the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency. i believe that the coast guard functions must be coordinated at european level if the means of action are to be decided at national level.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency, as this proposal should coordinate surveillance, prevention and maritime monitoring activities at european union level in order to gain a better insight into the maritime situation and support the adoption of coherent, effective and cost-effective measures. this proposal provides the three european agencies, which are also faced with the problem of major accidents at sea, with the possibility of coordinating their operations at sea and exchanging information with each other that they need to operate. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency must be given the opportunity to pool their operational capacities and exchange surveillance information for the purpose of enhancing maritime safety and security. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities, including through the use of the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
written. ‒ national bodies performing coast guard functions are responsible for a wide range of tasks such as protection, safety and rescue at sea, border control and environmental protection. the commission should be able to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the member states in the field of the internal market in order to ensure that they are implemented in a manner that is consistent with the principles of the internal market. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency should coordinate surveillance, prevention and maritime surveillance activities at union level in order to gain a better understanding of the situation in the maritime sector and support the adoption of coherent, effective and cost-effective measures. the purpose of the proposal is to give the three european agencies: the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency the opportunity to pool their operational capacities and exchange surveillance information for the purpose of enhancing maritime safety and security. i support this proposal for a regulation because i believe that in this way the three agencies will be able to provide support to the national authorities and to act jointly and effectively. such cooperation is very important in the context of current migration flows, as large migration flows require even greater material and human solidarity.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the establishment of a community fisheries control agency because i believe that the agency will provide support to the authorities and act jointly in the area of control, safety and surveillance, while providing the necessary information, equipment and training. i believe that cooperation between national authorities performing functions of coast guard, protection, security, rescue at sea, border control and customs supervision has so far been tedious and full of gaps in information on powers, competence and joint operations. i believe that this proposal will strengthen cooperation between national bodies performing the coast guard function, inter-agency cooperation, but also cooperation between civil and military entities.
written. ‒ i support this report on the olaf supervisory board secretariat, which aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory board secretariat. i believe that this ensures a more efficient functioning of the supervisory board than has been the case so far.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 as regards the secretariat of the supervisory board of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) (com ((2016) 0113 c8-0109/2016 2016/0064 ((cod))), as this regulation allows the secretariat of the supervisory board of olaf to operate more autonomously and effectively, in line with previous proposals of the european parliament. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of the comments to the director-general of the european commission. the proposed measures do not increase the cost but rather reallocate it to the eu budget.
written. ‒ the objective of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory board secretariat in order to make the supervisory board more effective. the european parliament has so far on several occasions requested the commission to take measures to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, and this issue has been discussed in the context of the exchange of views between the council, parliament and the commission under article 16 of the olaf regulation. the new proposal for a regulation provides that the secretariat of the supervisory board is to be appointed by the commission, rather than by olaf, and that the budgetary appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory board will be transferred from the olaf budget line and establishment plan to the budget line and establishment plan. the data processing in the secretariat will continue to be the responsibility of olaf's data protection officer and the same confidentiality rules as before will apply to the secretariat staff. i supported this report because it aims to correct the existing shortcomings in the olaf regulation and the proposed amendments will not have financial implications for the european budget.
written. ‒ the supervisory board of the european anti-fraud office should have a secretariat independent of the european anti-fraud office in order to avoid any conflict of interest. i share the concern of my club of deputies about possible conflicts of interest and call for the strengthening of legal independence in respect of the management of the budget and the secretariat of the committee. i also support the amendments to the commission decision of 18 december 2015 to transfer the responsibility of the director-general of olaf for the implementation of the members' budget to the commission. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary appropriations. the continued link between the supervisory board and the office could have the counter-effect of creating suspicion and mistrust in the proper management of budgetary money and the dedicated planning of workplaces. it is important to emphasise that the supervision of the european anti-fraud office must be conducted in a transparent manner so that the office can carry out its task without hindrance. we must be able to protect the financial interests of the european union and enable olaf to act as an independent service for the conduct of investigative procedures within the eu.
written. ‒ the objective of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory board secretariat in order to make the supervisory board more effective. the european parliament has so far on several occasions requested the commission to take measures to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, for example in its 2013 discharge procedure report or in its resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. this issue was also discussed in the context of the exchange of views between the council, parliament and the commission under article 16 of the olaf regulation. during such exchange on 28 september 2015, the representatives of the european parliament reiterated the need to strengthen the independent functioning of the secretariat of the supervisory committee. the supervisory board has emphasised in its annual reports of work for 2013 and 2014 the importance of its independent and effective functioning, which requires an independent secretariat with appropriate staff. he stressed that the exercise by the director-general of olaf of the appointing authority's powers, including the adoption of decisions on promotions and transfers, could lead to conflicts of interest. for the reasons set out above, i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 as regards the secretariat of the supervisory board of the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the objective of this proposal for a regulation is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory board secretariat in order to make the supervisory board more effective. the supervisory board has emphasised in its annual reports of work for 2013 and 2014 the importance of its independent and effective functioning, which requires an independent secretariat with appropriate staff. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union budget. the new proposal for a regulation provides for the appointment of the secretariat of the supervisory board by the commission, rather than by olaf. i support the proposal for this regulation, as parliament has already asked the commission on several occasions to take measures to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, and this regulation can finally achieve this.
written. ‒ i supported the amendment of the regulation aimed at strengthening the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory board of the european anti-fraud office in order to make it more effective. i believe that the efficiency and independence of the supervisory board's work also requires an independent secretariat with adequate staff. the new proposal for a regulation will designate the supervisory board secretariat by the commission instead of the european anti-fraud office and will transfer the budgetary appropriations for the supervisory board secretariat from the olaf budget line and establishment plan to the commission budget line and establishment plan. the proposed amendments will have no financial implications for the budget of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the preparation of the post-electoral revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020: parliament's opinion before the commission's proposal because i consider it extremely important to analyse the budgetary aspects of the functioning of the emff. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). the fact is that satellite instruments have been set up in response to the migration and refugee crisis and that the budgetary resources earmarked for this purpose are still insufficient. it should also be noted that the union is facing low levels of investment, which directly affects the economic recovery, that youth unemployment is one of the eu's biggest problems, and that the financial resources allocated to internal security are insufficient. in this context, the activation of the flexibility provisions and full respect for the principle of budgetary balance with the political and strategic priorities of the eu is key.
written. ‒ the european budget must align the political and strategic priorities of the union and ensure a balance between long-term priorities and the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. since the scale of the crisis could not be foreseen at the time of the 2014-2020 mff, the union had to use additional budgetary and common funds and established the efsi, with the aim of investing in new investments in the real economy for growth and jobs. the additional funding has been secured by reallocation from horizon 2020 and the cef, which has resulted in a decrease in the performance of these funds due to budgetary constraints. the revision of the multiannual framework is a process in which we ask ourselves whether we are achieving the objectives set at the level and whether the existing allocation of resources is appropriate to the challenges we are facing. our goals are clear, and they are: more employment and education for our population, social sensitivity and inclusion, poverty reduction, equitable development, innovation, technological challenges, digitisation, more investment and increased competitiveness. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments. i think the answer is in a larger community and linking to national budgets. the european budget would thus be an added value in addressing national and common european challenges, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the preparation of the post-election revision of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the current mff was adopted for the first time on the basis of the new provisions of the treaty of lisbon, under which the council adopts the mff regulation unanimously with the prior consent of the european parliament. the current mff was agreed in 2013 and reflects the priorities of the union at the time of its adoption. meanwhile, the number of eu financial priorities increased, while the emff remained unchanged. this is why parliament called for a post-election review clause to guarantee the democratic legitimacy of the new mff and to give the new commission and the newly elected parliament the opportunity to make the appropriate adjustments. the parliament successfully negotiated the inclusion of a specific article in the mfn regulation regarding the mandatory and comprehensive review of the mfn. in any event, before the end of 2016, it should be mandatory to review the functioning of the mff and, if necessary, to adopt a legislative proposal for the revision of the mff regulation. in doing so, account must be taken of all the current challenges such as the migration and refugee crisis, low levels of investment, youth unemployment, internal security and the agricultural crisis, which i particularly draw attention to.
written. ‒ youth unemployment in the eu remains dramatically high and is one of the most important and serious problems facing the european union today. 4.4 million young people were unemployed in the european union in february this year. the high youth unemployment rate is thus over 40% in some member states and as high as 60% in some eu regions. the european union needs a large number of highly qualified people who can find a job in the eu, because only this will have a strong impact on strengthening european competitiveness, innovation capacity and productivity. to do this, investments are needed in education, training, youth and culture. on the other hand, it is important to take account of external crises. many regions in syria, the middle east and africa are experiencing humanitarian and migration challenges like never before. this crisis has led to a major financial burden falling on part of the european union, and thus the migration crisis has also had a significant impact on the budget of the european union. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the mfa is a key element of the eu's external policy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the current multiannual financial framework (mff), agreed in 2013, reflects the priorities of the union at the time of its adoption. the mfa agreement for the period 2014-2020 was the result of a long and complex negotiation process conducted in a very difficult social, economic and financial context. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the appointment of a european data protection supervisor and the appointment of a european data protection supervisor. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that a change in the mff is necessary, as the union will face challenges in the coming years that were not foreseen when the mff was approved, and the number of union financial priorities has increased, while the mff has remained unchanged.
written. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff) is a spending plan that sets out the priorities of the european union in financial terms, limits expenditure over a period of time and defines the maximum amount available for each major category of expenditure. it also provides a policy and budgetary framework to focus resources and investments where needed. the multiannual financial framework shall set out the maximum possible annual amounts (ceilings) which the union may use for the different policy areas (headings) over a period of at least five years. the commission notes that the mff is intended to cover the following activities: as the current mff plan envisages increased spending, i voted against the report on the preparation of the post-election revision of the mff 2014-20 period.
written. ‒ i support this report on taxes and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the report goes into more detail on priorities such as tax havens, the role of intermediaries, banks and tax advisers, the protection of whistleblowers, etc.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect because it is essential to analyse the application of state aid and tax rules across the union. in this context, it is important to introduce a european tax on deductions to ensure that profits made in the eu are subject to at least one intra-union taxation and to protect whistleblowers. it is also important to strengthen the code of conduct for tax advisers and to implement effectively the recommendations of the organisation for economic cooperation and development oecd by member states in view of the coherent functioning of the internal market. i therefore believe that it is essential to ensure tax compliance and i therefore support this report.
written. the commission also notes that the luxembourg tax administration has not provided any evidence that the tax rulings of luxopco and luxscs are in line with the principles of the arm's length principle. public unrest over tax evasion by certain multinational companies led to the establishment of a temporary special committee on tax rulings and other measures (taxe). the commission has estimated the level of tax evasion at eur 1 billion per year, and oecd estimates range between 4% and 10% of all tax revenue gains, at 2014 levels. developing countries are the hardest hit by tax evasion, losing vital funds to finance the most basic services. small and medium-sized enterprises are the primary job creators in europe, and cross-border companies pay on average 30% less tax than companies operating in only one country, which seriously distorts competition, leads to job losses and hinders sustainable growth. the best tool to combat tax evasion is a well-designed law that will be implemented in a coordinated manner. to this end, the automatic exchange of information between member states will start at the beginning of 2017 and i therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. at this point, it's important to establish an automatic exchange of information system. while it will result in a large amount of data to be processed, it is necessary to coordinate the issues related to the computer processing of those data and the staff required to analyse those data. whistleblowers' work is crucial for identifying the determinants of tax evasion and tax avoidance and therefore the protection of whistleblowers in the eu should be legally guaranteed and strengthened. i call on the commission to draw up as soon as possible a common definition and list of non-cooperative jurisdictions at union level, i.e. a 'black list of tax havens'. it is also very important that all national parliaments work together to ensure appropriate control and consistency of tax systems between member states. it is also necessary to make further efforts to access documents from member states, the commission and the code of conduct group, as well as to further analyse documents held by parliament in order to adequately assess the need for further political action and policy initiatives.
written. ‒ cases such as the panama papers and luxleaks published by the international consortium of investigative journalists highlight the urgent need for the eu and its member states to take new steps to combat tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning, and to work towards greater cooperation and transparency to restore tax justice, making their tax systems fairer and to act to ensure that various corporate taxes are paid where new value is created, not only in the eu but also globally. i welcome the renewed focus at the g8 and g20 level on taxation, which should lead to new joint recommendations in the fight against illegal tax evasion. i ask the commission to keep the european parliament regularly informed of the results and possible consequences of the g20 decisions on the fight against corporate tax evasion, aggressive tax planning practices and any illicit financial flows. i call on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base before the end of 2016 which will bring clarity and simplicity to business for companies and facilitate cross-border economic activity within the european union itself.
written. ‒ i supported the report on decisions on taxes and other measures similar in nature or effect, as the special committee on taxes and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe) was set up by the european parliament in february 2015, with the strong support of the greens/efa, to investigate the luxleaks scandal of november 2014 in order to identify large companies that paid low or zero tax in luxembourg. i welcome the extension of the special committee (taxe2) in november 2015 to continue its investigations into the panama papers. the report is very good and contains a number of good recommendations. it's crucial to ban patent boxes, publish registers of the real owners of companies, protect whistleblowers and acknowledge non-compliance with the european union.
written. ‒ the commission estimates that the annual amount of tax evasion and avoidance amounts to up to eur 1 trillion. in the context of budgetary mutual control, it is unacceptable that funds that should be realised by taxes owed in one member state are actually realised in another member state through unfair and aggressive tax planning. the avoidance of corporate taxation results in a loss of usd 100 billion in tax revenues annually, disproportionately affecting developing countries, depriving them of the necessary funds to finance the most basic services and harming eu development cooperation policies. among the tax2 recommendations are the withdrawal of banking licenses of financial institutions that assist in the conduct of tax fraud and the call for a global wealth registry. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that these instruments can prevent multinational companies from using legal instruments which enable them to avoid paying the appropriate tax and thus avoid their tax obligations towards society.
‒ the member states of the european union are suffering significant revenue losses due to the aggressive tax planning practices of some multinational corporations. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to maintain its sales volumes in the union during the period considered. the anti-tax avoidance package is a set of european union initiatives to strengthen the rules against corporate tax avoidance and to make the taxation of companies in the union fairer, simpler and more efficient. while i support the recommendations of the organisation for economic cooperation and development to address the issues of reducing the tax base and profit shifting, i cannot support the proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base as i consider that it does not offer a comprehensive solution to the majority of harmful tax practices in the union. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020, as i believe that more synergies are needed not only between these eu programmes but also more synergies and a coordinated action of all other eu funding programmes including the juncker fund and the european investment bank's financial instruments. in this respect, i expect the commission to initiate specific measures and proposals. the european funding programmes after 2020 should be more coherent, with simpler procedures, and more flexible in their application in order to facilitate synergies. it is necessary to take account of the different levels of economic and social development in which parts of europe are situated in order to achieve the most efficient use of development investments in accordance with their specificities and potential. europe needs to invest more in science, innovation, development and research to generate economic growth and new jobs. investments should be such as to guarantee added value and maximisation of results.
written. ‒ cohesion policy is built on linking the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund (cf), with coordination within the common strategic framework with funds dedicated to rural development. in order to optimise the added value of investments funded in whole or in part from the union budget in the field of research and innovation, it is necessary to achieve a synergistic effect between the european structural and investment funds and horizon 2020. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment, and will continue to support the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment. synergies between other policies and instruments need to be further enhanced in order to maximise the impact of investments, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ horizon 2020 and the structural funds are two different eu policy frameworks for financing development, but both focus on common strategic objectives: excellence, competitiveness and innovation, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. horizon 2020 contributes to the growth and prosperity of the eu member states, reducing economic, social and territorial disparities. i consider the programme extremely important and i am sure that all users of this programme use it in the best possible way. horizon 2020 is based on three main priorities: excellent science, industrial leadership and societal challenges. investing in areas such as scientific research, the acquisition of equipment and innovative infrastructure, key technology, support for smes, renewable energy, food security, tackling demographic ageing, health, etc. is certainly contributing to the growth of the eu market, leading to solutions and responses to the economic crisis. simplification of the rules for participation allows cooperation with industrialised and developed countries, acceding countries, neighbouring countries and developing countries. horizon 2020 together with the structural funds and in cooperation with other eu funds can only bring positive results, and therefore by supporting this form of eu investment in different activities of strategic importance to all eu member states, i have also supported this resolution on synergies for innovation.
written. ‒ i believe that the links between cohesion policy and other eu policies, funding programmes and initiatives (such as horizon 2020, connecting europe facility, digital single market, rural development, energy union) are strengthened within the common strategic framework introduced by the cpr and that cohesion policy, through all its instruments and objectives, including the urban plan, the territorial programme, investment in smes, potential public investment in the development of innovative solutions in areas such as, inter alia, environment, energy, health, climate, digitalisation and transport, contributes significantly to strengthening the single market and achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives. i believe that the focus on results in cohesion policy should be further strengthened. synergies with other competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, are urgently needed to increase the rate of exploitation of eu research and development results, create new and maintain existing quality jobs and promote the 'green' economy. i call on the commission to monitor synergies between the funds systematically and to publish a communication on those synergies, and in particular on the synergies between horizon 2020 and the smart specialisation initiative, in order to disseminate examples of best practice and increase their impact before the revision of the europe 2020 strategy.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution: synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020, as the links between cohesion policy and other eu policies and initiatives (horizon 2020, connecting europe facility, rural development, digital single market and energy union) are strengthened within the common strategic framework introduced by the cpr, thus contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives within all its instruments and objectives, including city plans, territorial programme, investment in smes, smart growth and smart specialisation strategies. the commission should be able to use the information contained in the annual report to assess the impact of the union's actions on the environment and to assess the impact of the union's actions on the environment. in the case of horizon 2020, this means raising awareness by providing information, launching communication campaigns and linking the national contact points as closely as possible with national and regional policy-makers and managing authorities in the field of the european structural and investment funds. the european fund for strategic investments should complement and build upon the esi funds and other eu programmes such as horizon 2020.
‒ cohesion policy in the financial programming period 2014-2020 remains the union's main instrument for investing in the real economy in all regions, with the aim of bringing the eu closer to its citizens. cohesion policy should be fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on the joint action of the three funds: the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund, with wider coordination within the common strategic framework with the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. the links between cohesion policy and other eu policies, funding programmes and initiatives have been strengthened within the common strategic framework. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe it guarantees a limited number of cohesion policy objectives and priorities, thus creating thematic focus, while at the same time guaranteeing a certain degree of flexibility as well as the principle of strong partnership and good governance at multiple levels.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the strategic priorities for the commission's work programme for 2017 because i believe that stronger and more effective european solutions are needed to make the union a global leader. the european commission must take concrete action as soon as possible to enable europe's economic recovery, increase youth employment and enable the creation of quality jobs. further integration of the single market, increased investment in innovation, development and research, and an effective industrial strategy are all necessary to achieve economic growth. the current way the eu works has proven to be inadequate and insufficient, especially when it comes to unexpected crises such as internal and external security and the influx of migrants. the commission must improve the mechanisms that allow for the timely exchange of information and ensure effective humanitarian assistance in the form of strengthening the geopolitical position and stability in the eu's neighbourhood. in this context, strong budgetary and financial instruments are key to enable adequate resources to be mobilised, to ensure the protection of the union's financial interests, to implement cohesion policy and to encourage the necessary budgetary flexibility. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission in order to ensure that the union's policy priorities are met.
written. ‒ the creation of new jobs remains an eu priority and calls for measures to stimulate research, development and innovation and facilitate access to capital for smes. the digital single market should be globally competitive, innovative and citizen-centred. it is stressed that the core of the eu's economic and social agenda must include measures to reduce inequalities and promote job creation, in particular for young people and the long-term unemployed, accelerating investment in the education system, lifelong learning and skills development. the implementation of all financial services and tax legislation, the monitoring of debt, deficits and macroeconomic imbalances in a manner that implements the stability and growth pact and promotes economic growth, the respect of democratic standards and the fight against tax avoidance shall be monitored. it is also necessary to ensure energy efficiency and security for all citizens and to take care of climate change. the eu should implement joint actions and inform citizens of their rights and duties and encourage their active participation in political life, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ the multiannual financial framework has already reached its limits after only two years of implementation, and it is therefore necessary for the commission to carry out a review of its functioning, which will include measures to employ the young people whose high unemployment we are still facing, as well as those to create new jobs. the protection and improvement of the working and living conditions of european citizens, especially those affected by poverty or some form of discrimination, is something we must constantly pursue. sustainable agriculture is essential for food security, the economy and the confirmation of environmental standards, and i therefore support continuing work on simplifying the cap to alleviate the administrative burden on farmers, especially small family farms. it is important to step up efforts to create an energy union, take a more ambitious approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and invest in renewable energy sources. the migration crisis we are facing is not coming to an end, and it is therefore important to strengthen cooperation on this issue and to find concrete solutions to address the refugee crisis, and to strengthen security in the face of the rise in terrorism. all of this is captured in the strategic priorities for the commission's 2017 work programme, the priorities are well defined and the steps to address them are in the right direction, which is why i supported this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ the eu must work towards a dynamic and inclusive labour market embedded in the european model of social market economy, improving the working and living conditions of citizens in their places of origin and enabling equitable mobility, while respecting the fundamental european principle of free movement of workers in each member state. i am convinced that all eu citizens must be able to count on a basic set of fair working conditions, full compliance with european standards on health and safety at work and access to quality education, social protection and basic services that allow a balance between private and professional life. i call for a relaunch of the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable growth and jobs, and for the upgrading of our social market economy model and for the achievement of prosperity for all. i am convinced that boosting employment remains the top priority and that the eu needs targeted investment to accelerate the transition to an innovative, resource-efficient and digital economy with a view to reindustrialising europe. i am asking the commission to devise a new and ambitious industrial strategy that builds on and complements the circular economy package. i stress that additional public and private investment is needed for energy transition, environmentally innovative smes, research and education.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the current crises that are shaking the european union require european solutions based on the principles of accountability and the democratic process. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. it also calls on the commission to take further steps towards the creation of an energy union to guarantee energy security and sustainable energy for european citizens and businesses. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the implementation of the union's external borders policy, including on the progress of the union's external borders policy, and on the progress of the union's external borders policy. the european union, in cooperation with the member states, must be able to act jointly to secure the european external border. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the european union must be committed to working to maintain or achieve global leadership in competitiveness, energy security, economic recovery, tackling the migration crisis and strengthening democracy.
written. ‒ i support this report on japan's decision to continue whaling in the 2015/2016 season. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the advisory committee on the conservation of whales and seals, i believe that further political pressure should be applied to japan to stop its whaling program. japan must stop its whaling program that threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on japan's decision to continue whaling in the 2015/16 season because i believe that the international community needs to do more to preserve biodiversity and marine ecosystems, especially when it comes to conserving endangered species. in this context, the number of whales being killed using special permits for purported scientific research has increased, directly threatening the whale population as a whole. japan is a strategic partner of the eu and bilateral cooperation is based on the rules of the international order. therefore, i support the call to japan to stop whaling and to maintain a global moratorium on commercial whaling, and i continue to support this joint motion for a resolution.
the international whaling commission adopted a moratorium on all forms of commercial whaling in 1982 to protect stocks from extinction and allow them to recover. this moratorium, which is still in force, allows for exemptions for whaling of only a limited number of animals for scientific purposes only, so-called 'special permit whaling'. despite a moratorium on commercial whaling, the practice continues in some countries, and the number of whales killed under special permits for purported scientific research is on the rise. japan has been practicing this form of whaling for decades. in a judgment of 31 march 2014, the international tribunal ordered the suspension of the annual whaling in japan, based on its jarpa ii programme, due to the lack of scientific value and the fact that the issued permits were not used for scientific research. the commission has also received information from the japanese authorities, which has provided it with a copy of the notification. the commission has also provided information on the number of vessels that have been involved in the illegal whaling operation in the baltic sea. i supported this resolution as the primary objectives must be the protection of biodiversity, including the conservation of species, while respecting the eu habitats directive, which does not allow commercial whaling.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on japan's decision to resume whaling in the 2015/16 season. whether we consider the ban on whales to be appropriate and justified or not, it is based on an international agreement that dates back to 1931 and to 1946, when the dangers of overfishing were first recognized. that cooperation resulted in a moratorium some 30 years ago. this step was based on scientific research that speaks to the need to conserve and recover populations that have been decimated by previous unsustainable whaling practices. in those years, 50,000 whales were caught a year. it is unfortunate that the 1982 whaling moratorium is not enforced, and in the last 30 years, despite the ban, japan has hunted 20,000 whales under the guise of scientific research. it is the disregard for international law and the judgment of the international court of justice that is particularly worrying. this disrespect is evident in the decision to continue whaling and the planned capture of another 4,000 whales over the next 12 years. i wonder what would happen if other countries were to disregard international agreements to the same degree. let us not forget that the whaling fleets of canada, the faroe islands, greenland, iceland, indonesia, norway, the philippines, russia, st. vincent and the grenadines, south korea, and the united states are also entitled to whaling.
written. ‒ in 1982, the international whaling commission, in an effort to protect the stocks from extinction and enable them to recover, imposed a moratorium on all forms of commercial whaling, which is still in effect. the international whaling convention contains specific provisions allowing the whaling of a limited number of animals for scientific purposes only, known as 'special permit whaling'. despite this international ban, which came into force in 1986, japan continued to hunt whales and by 2014 had killed more than 20,000 whales. in october 2015, japan submitted a declaration to the un accepting the icj's ruling with the exception of any dispute arising out of, relating to or related to the exploration, conservation, management or exploitation of marine biological resources, effectively excluding any future objections to the icj regarding their specific whaling licence programmes. for all of the above, i call on japan to suspend whaling and to respect the findings of the international whaling commission. i also strongly support maintaining a worldwide moratorium on commercial whaling and banning international trade in whale products. i call for an end to unwarranted 'whaling for scientific purposes' and support the designation of large ocean and marine areas as sanctuaries where all forms of whaling are banned indefinitely.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution: japan's decision to continue whaling in the 2015/2016 season, as the resolution calls on japan to cease all whaling activities. in 1982 the international whaling commission banned commercial whaling of all large whales, and this ban took effect in 1986. despite this international ban, japan continued to hunt whales under various pretexts, including whaling for scientific purposes, and killed more than 17 000 whales between 1986 when the ban was enacted and the 2008/2009 season. whaling, which continues in some countries, can cause great and long-term suffering to individuals and threatens their survival at the level of the entire population. negotiations for an eu-japan free trade agreement officially started in march 2013. it is necessary for the commission and the council to encourage japan to respect its international obligations regarding the protection of marine mammals in the context of the ongoing negotiations for an eu-japan free trade agreement. if japan continues to hunt whales, this will be an additional reason to refuse to give consent to the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the eu and japan.
the international whaling commission in 1982 imposed a moratorium on all forms of commercial whaling, which is still in effect. the moratorium only allows for exemptions for whaling of a limited number of animals for scientific purposes only. japan has been practicing whaling for decades with special permits for supposed scientific research. the international tribunal has ordered the halt of the annual whaling in japan for lack of scientific value and because the permits issued were not used for scientific research as japan claimed. the commission has also received information from the japanese authorities that the japanese authorities have not yet taken any action to address the concerns raised by the commission. i support the motion for a resolution because i am in favour of maintaining a worldwide moratorium on commercial whaling and of stopping unjustified whaling for scientific purposes. i regret that japan is ignoring the judgment of the international court of justice and that it has not yet reconsidered its decision despite the diplomatic demarche and international protests around the world, and i hope that the union and the member states will do everything in their power to resolve this issue through political dialogue.
the international whaling commission in 1982 imposed a moratorium on all forms of commercial whaling, which is still in place, to protect stocks from extinction and allow them to recover, with only exceptions allowed for whaling of a limited number of animals for scientific purposes only, known as "permitted whaling". despite the aforementioned moratorium, commercial whaling continues in some countries and since the moratorium was introduced, the number of whales killed under a special permit for alleged scientific research has been on the rise. since dna sampling and remote monitoring allows scientists to study whales without killing them, i have supported a resolution that no more whaling licenses can be issued without first being subject to international review by, among others, the scientific committee of the international whaling commission.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 105 (4) of the rules of procedure on the commission delegated decision of 15 april 2016 amending annex iii to decision no 466/2014/eu of the european parliament and of the council granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing operations supporting investment projects outside the union, as regards belarus, given that there are still a number of shortcomings in that country as regards the establishment of a democratic social order, respect for human rights, media independence, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the implementing acts referred to in article 5 of this regulation. such decisions should take into account economic and political as well as social criteria.
written. ‒ belarus is currently the only presidential state in europe whose president alexander lukashenko won his fifth consecutive term in the 2015 elections. it's also the only country in europe that carries out the death penalty. the belarusian authorities have so far failed to meet any of the main expectations agreed at the meeting with the council of the eu. the upcoming national elections should be conducted in accordance with internationally recognised standards, the civil and political rights of former political prisoners should be respected, freedom of association and assembly should be respected, full cooperation with the un high commissioner for human rights should be ensured, the death penalty should be abolished, nuclear safety standards should be met, and so on. given that the decision does not sufficiently take into account all aspects related to respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy in belarus and that the amendments should be based on a real and effective assessment including economic, social, environmental and political aspects, in particular those related to democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, i did not support this resolution.
written. ‒ prior to granting the eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses in respect of belarus, the european commission and the european external action service made all necessary political, economic, social and environmental assessments and concluded that there is sufficient basis to mitigate the restrictive approach of the eu to belarus and that belarus fulfils the conditions for eu guarantees to the european investment bank. as the decision to grant the guarantee was taken after a thorough assessment and the political situation in the country was taken into account in the decision making process, i do not consider the proposals to object to this decision to be justified and therefore i cannot support the motions for resolutions on the commission delegated decision of 15 april 2016 amending annex iii to decision no 466/2014/eu of the european parliament and of the council granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing operations supporting investment projects outside the union in respect of belarus. the eu and belarus are also cooperating in the field of human rights and democracy, and the eu is working with belarus to ensure that the eu's human rights record is respected.
the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the council decided that after 22 august 2015, when all remaining political prisoners had been released at the request of the eu, the eu would not continue to implement the extensive restrictive measures, namely those concerning 170 individuals and three companies in belarus. the council has also expressed its concern at the lack of progress in the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the upcoming general elections, to be held on 11 september 2016, are an opportunity for belarus to end its long-standing practice of rigged elections. they represent a crucial test to assess the readiness of the authorities of that state to reconcile with its own citizens and to initiate constructive cooperation with the eu. in the light of the above, but also due to the complex situation in the republic of belarus, i shall abstain from voting.
written. ‒ belarus remains a centralised and autocratic state under the strict control of president lukashenko, who was re-elected on 11 october 2015 with 83,5% of the vote. the legitimacy of the election was called into question due to problems during the counting and sorting of votes. human rights violations remain rampant and systematic, journalists and human rights defenders are often harassed, and it is impossible to establish independent associations. the opposition is still absent from parliament, and belarus is still the only european country to use the death penalty. after a long debate, the epp club decided to abstain because we believe that the extension of the mandate of the european investment bank to belarus could lead to a potential strengthening of the power of president lukashenko, who has been systematically violating human rights in that country for years, and i therefore abstained in accordance with the group's decision.
written. ‒ i consider that the economic, political and environmental situation in belarus is not acceptable for financing by the european investment bank under the european union guarantee. i also believe that the belarusian authorities have not taken any action regarding human rights violations. in addition, there are doubts that eu funds will be used to finance russian projects in belarus that do not comply with eu nuclear safety standards. therefore, i believe that the european union should avoid financing investment projects in belarus.
written. ‒ i voted against parliament's resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 23 may 2016 supplementing directive 2014/59/eu of the parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards establishing criteria related to the methodology for determining the minimum regulatory capital requirement and eligible liabilities, as i consider that this objection would unnecessarily delay the consistent implementation of this directive. the alde group's position is to vote against this motion for a resolution, and i support it.
‒ the european banking authority (eba) has issued an opinion to the commission expressing its opposition to some of the proposed amendments to the eba's final draft regulatory technical standard with regard to the criteria for determining the minimum capital requirement and eligible liabilities (mrel). this delegated regulation cannot enter into force and the commission is requested to submit a new delegated act to consider whether institutions meet the requirements for the distribution of liabilities, whereby shareholders and creditors are to contribute to loss absorption and recapitalisation of at least 8% of total liabilities, including regulatory capital. it is important that this be stated in the new regulation in order to ensure consistency with the directive and to provide legal certainty. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the capital injections were made in the context of the restructuring plan.
written. ‒ i object to the commission delegated regulation of 23 may 2016 supplementing directive 2014/59/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria related to the methodology for determining the minimum regulatory capital requirement and eligible liabilities. the amount of the adjustment to the eligible own funds to meet the scr due to the application of the transitional adjustment to the relevant risk-free interest rate term structure. in particular, in cases where institutions are of invaluable importance for the functioning of the whole system. the requirement for the distribution of liabilities, which implies that shareholders and creditors contribute to the loss absorption and recapitalisation of at least 8% of the total liabilities and regulatory capital before the resolution fund can be used for its purposes, as set out in article 44 (5) of directive 2014/59/eu, constitutes a significant limitation of the action of resolution authorities.
written. article 45 (2) of directive 2014/59/eu, following the submission of draft standards by eba and in accordance with articles 10 to 14 of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010, delegates the power to adopt delegated acts establishing the assessment criteria related to the methodology for determining the minimum capital requirement and the minimum eligible liabilities (mrel). on 9 february 2016, eba issued an opinion to the commission expressing its opposition to certain proposed amendments to the eba's final draft regulatory technical standard with regard to the criteria for determining the minimum capital requirement and eligible liabilities (mrel). i oppose the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying criteria related to the methodology for determining the minimum regulatory capital requirement and eligible liabilities, and i hope that the commission will adopt a new delegated act containing an assessment of whether, in the case of a systemically important institution, the requirements for the allocation of liabilities set out in article 44 (5) of directive 2014/59/eu (which requires shareholders and creditors to contribute to the absorption of losses and to the recapitalisation of at least 8% of total liabilities including regulatory capital) can be met in order to ensure consistency with the directive and provide legal certainty should be explicitly retained in the delegated regulation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ resolution funds are established to enable the financing of resolution in exceptional circumstances where the resolution programme cannot be executed with the financial resources of the failing institution alone and where failure to execute the resolution programme would jeopardise financial stability. a fair assessment of the criteria for the need to ensure the ability of the institution to be wound up in a manner that achieves the objectives of the resolution may require the resolution authority to consider the possibility that the institution's internal resources are insufficient and that the application of a resolution financing arrangement is necessary. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that the best possible conditions for financing recovery programmes must be achieved.
written. ‒ resolution authorities shall determine the amount of recapitalisation that would be required to implement the preferred resolution strategy, explaining and quantifying any change in regulatory capital requirements as a direct consequence of the resolution action. the commission considers that the use of the resolution funds is of particular importance in relation to an institution of systemic importance whose uncontrolled collapse is likely to have a negative impact on financial stability. the commission therefore considers that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty.
the 2014 elections have shown that the union needs serious reform. eurosceptic forces have prevailed in france and britain, and the number of critics of such a union in this house has grown significantly. but the federalists and euro-fanatics chose to ignore the election results and did not feel the need to address the concerns of the citizens and the desire for reform that was expressed in them. the british referendum is another democratic slap in the face to the european elites and a new clear indication that citizens are so dissatisfied that they would rather see their future in uncertainty than in this kind of union. i agree that the union is needed by our countries, but as an added value, not as a stone around the neck. we need a common vision and strategy both externally and internally, that's undeniable, but the key input has to come from the bottom up. the european union must go back to the people and listen to their voice, otherwise it risks disappearing and no paper strategy will help.
written. the eu needs a new strategy for its foreign and security policy. this is necessary not only because of recent events with brexit, but also because of the ongoing very dynamic changes in many parts of the world. what i want to emphasize is the need for a different approach to the neighbouring countries, and especially to the western balkan countries. urgent and effective integration into the eu security systems is needed to strengthen the common security policy. i am thinking in particular of the uncreated border and coast guard agency, which should actively involve the countries of the western balkans because of the known facts of the existence of the so-called balkan route. although this route is currently in the background when we talk about migrants, it is known that it is through the balkans that the smuggling routes are. the integration of the western balkan countries into the security and intelligence system of the member states and the eu will undoubtedly contribute to a higher level of security for all stakeholders.
mr. president, mr. veal asked me to take his minute, but of course i'll be making my own views and opinions. when i read the newspaper, i've read for almost 50 years the same subject about the middle east, about the relationship between israelis and palestinians. i've been to israel and palestine several times and i've seen the state of things. what we've heard here from president rivlin and president abbas only confirms that peace is a long way off. the quartet report also confirms that peace is still a long way off. mrs. mogherini, i agree with you that there is no alternative to peace and that the way to resolve this situation in the middle east is definitely the existence of two sovereign states that will recognize each other and live as good neighbors side by side.
madam president, yes, of course, we need a new strategy with china, because a lot has changed, and especially because china has become a global player in the world. let's just look at its great role in asia, but let's not forget all that china means to africa today. let's look at what's happening in europe today. the last thing: the greek port of thessaloniki is handed over to cosco, china is investing in infrastructure in the western balkans. so the chinese presence will be stronger here in europe. but we must not forget and we must be very careful when we talk about giving market economy status to the chinese economy, because it is certainly clear that there are many dumping situations, support and subsidies from the state itself. i also highlight the human rights issue. as a member of alde i cannot but conclude that human rights in china must be respected far more than they are respected.
mr. president, the annual report on human rights in the world 2015. madam high commissioner, tell me, which continent should we start with: africa, asia, the americas, australia or should we talk about the european union? tell me which minority to start with: linguistic, religious, sexual or should we talk about the state of migrant rights as the latest topic we often have in our parliament? it really does seem sisyphic at times to fight for human rights - i've been doing it for 25 years, since i've been in politics. i fought for the linguistic rights of the italian community in istria, i fought for a series of rights that serbs, muslims, roma and many others in croatia should have. i believe this fight is worth it. we must never stop! as sisyphic as that sounds. that's why you have our support and we need to be determined, have an open dialogue and fight for human rights.
mr. president, this is the 71st united nations general assembly. the high commissioner is a really great representative, and it's the perfect opportunity for us to show, even after brexit, that we want to be united in our approach to the world body, to other countries, to friends, to partners, but also to everyone else. i think there's no doubt we'll take advantage of this opportunity. there's too many topics: from the migrant crisis, climate change, peace and democracy, human rights that we talked about earlier. this is an opportunity that we cannot and must not miss, not only because of all that is expected of us, but also because of the fact that we have passed a series of resolutions, that the un has passed resolution 1325, which we really need to start implementing and which is really important for both the eu and the policy that the eu is pursuing at this moment. that is why i want to emphasize in particular that we need to strengthen our alliance with the un and be even more present within the un organization.
mr. president, everyone is talking about the big issues of the panama papers and luxleaks which are generally known world issues. of course i want to talk about that here, but i want to talk about the thousands of whistleblowers that exist and want to help us fight corruption, all of the things that happen in different companies and institutions. that's why i want to have a minimum standard among us, because there's a need in the eu, there's cross-border fraud, there's cross-border corruption and there's a cross-border need for whistleblowers to point us to the injustices and the negative things that are happening. i'll give you an example from my native croatia. there was a whistleblower in the biggest company in croatia, ina, who had incredible problems years ago because she had discovered some negative things in that company. the other day, about five, six days ago, a woman discovered what is done with the meat, and it's the spoiled meat that is put on the market. that woman was fired the next day. we need to protect people like that.
mr. president, in some countries we are still feeling the effects of the 2008 financial crisis, which was generated, we know, by a lot of loans that were not backed up, that were risky and totally irrational. so on the one hand i welcome the need and the fact that we have to stabilize the banking system, that we have security in the banks, and not have, unfortunately, all that has happened before. the future must be secure and stable, but the future must also be good news for small and medium-sized enterprises. good news for industry, construction and investors. if we don't have good news for investors and a mutually shared risk between banks and the private sector that wants to invest and create and create jobs, it's not going to be good for our economy. so i think we have to keep that balance and the european commission can help a lot in that.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr president, i support this objection because it is one of the steps to regulate and reduce the consumption of energy drinks by children and young people in the eu. energy drink manufacturers claim that their advertising campaigns are not directed at children, but teenagers are among the largest consumers of energy drinks, and increasingly, children under 12 are drinking them. health claims that they improve concentration or facilitate learning may entice children and youths to drink these beverages before school or before studying. the link between children and energy drinks is problematic on several levels: first, it is the consumption of large amounts of sugar that is adversely affecting the already significant problem of obesity in children in europe. the second is caffeine consumption, the effects of which on children have yet to be extensively studied. the third is the development of taste in children, or the accustoming of them to an extremely sweet drink. fourth, mixing hard liquor with energy drinks is extremely popular among young people. this isn't about banning energy drinks. this is about common sense. besides, the little print on the cans already says it's not recommended for children or pregnant women. i have to say, it's bizarre that a drink that has more caffeine than a large black coffee with four tablespoons of sugar can even carry any health claims at all.
mr president, the draft new commission regulation is not in line with the objective and content of the regulation on nutrition and health claims made on foods, which is to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to facilitate their choice of products by presenting the properties of foods truthfully and correctly on the labels of the products. a varied and balanced diet is a prerequisite for good health, and certain foods dominate the diet of individuals. so, too, with caffeine, but also with sugar as ingredients in drinks and energy drinks, which have certain positive and negative properties, and which should be taken care of, especially as they are consumed by children or adolescents. the claim that 'caffeine contributes to increased endurance, increased endurance capacity, increased alertness and improved concentration' is not entirely true and does not give full information about the product and its potentially negative characteristics. although the proposed restrictions indicate that these claims should not be used in advertising of drinks intended for children and adolescents, in practice this is difficult or impossible to control. these health claims promote the use of energy drinks, which may result in an increased intake of caffeine and sugar above the recommended daily allowance. this is a serious problem when you consider that 68 percent of teenagers consume energy drinks, and 25 percent of them up to three energy drinks at a time. efsa itself has also established that increased sugar intake in the form of sweetened beverages can contribute to weight gain, and one can of energy drink contains as much as 27 g of sugar. we all know that obesity is one of the recognised health problems in children and adolescents across the eu. since the consumption of energy drinks is associated with headaches, sleeping difficulties and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who consume them regularly, i believe that the rules for food advertising should be better regulated by law.
mr. president, i have to say i'm not a big fan of energy drinks because i prefer a good drop of wine or a good beer. i do have an energy drink every once in a while when i have to drive for an extended period of time, or read, or work at night. somehow i feel like this story has gone too far. i wonder, knowing how much sugar is in beer, should we start talking about it? because beer has an unusually high sugar content. of course, i'm all for maximizing consumer protection and showing due caution, especially when it comes to children. without that, of course, there is no protection for all those boys and girls who consume energy drinks. however, i think that the member states should still have the advantage in this, the logic of subsidiarity in all this and the logic of properly informing consumers.
written. article 4 of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 provides that the commission is to establish specific nutritional profiles to be met by foods or categories of foods in order to be able to make nutrition or health claims. the commission has not established such nutritional profiles to date. a 250-ml can of energy drink may contain as much as 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine. a survey showed that 68 percent of teenagers and 8 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks. i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament to oppose the adoption of the draft commission regulation because i find the claim that energy drinks increase concentration and help with learning to be worrying. consider the problems associated with obesity, the effects of caffeine on the body, the development of taste in children, and the mixing of energy drinks with alcohol. we don't want to ban energy drinks or take them off the market, but we don't want to encourage consumers to consume something healthy if it's not true. children and young people are the victims of advertising campaigns, and it's our job to protect them.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mrs stevens for the very open and fruitful cooperation and acceptance of a large number of opinions of the tran committee and i take this opportunity to thank also the colleagues the shadow rapporteurs of the tran committee for an excellent report because most of it was actually accepted in the final report of parliament. the freedom of movement of european citizens is a fundamental right that is actually denied to almost 80 million of our citizens and they cannot be equally included in our society and culture, but neither can tourism, which is also an important economic branch of the european union. we have highlighted in our report a number of issues on which the commission, the council, parliament and indeed the whole of european society should work together. so, an intermodal transport that allows, alongside new technologies, the development of new jobs, the development of new services and jobs not only for the citizens of the european union who are currently employed, but also for people with disabilities who can thus participate on an equal footing as members of society. the european disability card is a project that all member states should accept. and that is why i am calling on the commission and the council to incorporate precisely these values in all future amendments to directives and regulations in order to encourage member states which today still have too many barriers in public transport, in tourism, in inaccessibility to all those cultural and artistic facilities where people with disabilities and people with reduced mobility should be able to participate like all other citizens of the european union.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. dear president, thank you for accepting this my blue card. you were talking about the need for facilities for the disabled. my question is: do you agree with me that the benefits and assistance of the state should also go to local and regional government units and municipal enterprises, public enterprises that employ people with disabilities? so do you think that cities, municipalities and regions should also receive state aid in the case of such employment and do you think that they should also be included in this report?
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly (2016/2020(ini) as it highlights all the eu's key priorities on the international stage, taking into account the deteriorating global and regional security environment, the new challenges of the fragile security situation affecting the situation within the eu, and the need for the eu to play a proactive role in the un's work towards peace, human rights security, democracy and the rule of law. the priorities are reflected in recommendations on peace and security, counter-terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, sustainable development, climate change and reform of the un system.
written. ‒ i support the rapporteur's recommendation that it is necessary to modify the existing cooperation between the european union and the united nations and to change the strategy for crisis management and peacekeeping operations under the auspices of the eu and the un. i would like to stress in particular the resolution of the crisis in syria and once again call for an end to the genocide and persecution of christians by extremist groups such as isil. declaratory sentences are not enough. the un and the international community have a duty to take the necessary concrete action. the european union should make all its resources available to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe in syria and neighbouring countries in the middle east. millions of people need our help and protection, and we must help them. the syrian crisis has spread to european soil, leading to the destabilisation of south-eastern europe. the lack of coordination and strategy in the eu-un relationship in dealing with the crisis situation both at the external borders of the european union and in the middle east has been demonstrated and needs to be urgently addressed.
written. ‒ given that the security situation in the eu is increasingly volatile and changeable due to a large number of long-standing and new security challenges, including violent conflicts, terrorism, organised crime, unrecorded waves of migrants and climate change, which cannot be solved at national level and which require regional and global solutions, i propose to make a clear recommendation to the council. i ask the council to continue to support multilateral efforts to find long-term political and peaceful solutions to the current conflicts in the middle east and north africa; to continue to support the work of the un secretary-general's special envoy for syria, the special representative and head of the united nations support mission in libya, the un secretary-general's special envoy for yemen, the un special coordinator for the middle east peace process and the un secretary-general's special representative for western sahara; to seek continued humanitarian, financial, military and political assistance from the international community to address the humanitarian situation and to work towards an immediate cessation of violence; to coordinate uncoordinated actions in crisis areas. i also call on the council to continue to call for the full respect of the internationally recognised borders and territorial integrity of the countries of eastern europe and the south caucasus, including georgia, moldova and ukraine, in view of the violations of international law in those areas, and for their free and sovereign commitment to the european path.
written. ‒ i supported the report with the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. the un can effectively contribute to global solutions, peace and security, development, human rights, democracy and an international order based on the rule of law. the global and regional security environment is becoming more complex, the boundaries between internal and external security are increasingly overlapping, and the un therefore continues to play a key role in ensuring global security and stability. the security situation in the eu is also increasingly volatile and changeable due to a large number of long-standing and emerging security challenges, including violent conflicts, terrorism, organised crime, unrecorded waves of migrants and climate change, which cannot be addressed at national level and require regional and global solutions. the eu and its member states together make the largest financial contribution to the un system, amounting to one third of the un's regular budget. the eu is also one of the world's greatest protectors and promoters of human rights, fundamental freedoms, cultural values and diversity, democracy and the rule of law, the achievement of environmental sustainability goals through improving the quality of the environment and the sustainable management of natural resources.
written. ‒ the union's policy is to commit itself to an effective multilateral system, with the un at its centre. fierce fighting is taking place on the threshold of the union. europe is exposed to hybrid warfare, cyber terrorism and it is becoming increasingly difficult for a single country or region to navigate the european security environment. the idea is therefore promoted that european defence and intelligence cooperation is not a mere political choice but a strategic and economic necessity and that cooperation with the un in the field of peace and security, terrorism, organised crime, regional conflicts, state breakdown and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is enhanced. i support this proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council because i believe that an effective system of multilateral relations is based on universally accepted rules and values and is best suited to address global crises, challenges and threats. the union is one of the greatest protectors and promoters of human rights, fundamental freedoms, cultural values and diversity, democracy and the rule of law, and cooperation with a like-minded partner such as the un can only bring new positive developments in all these fields.
written. ‒ the union's external policy is based on the conviction that a system of multilateral relations based on universally accepted rules and values is best suited to address global crises, challenges and threats. the member states of the european union should therefore play a proactive role in creating a united nations that can effectively contribute to global solutions, peace and security, development, human rights, democracy and an international order based on the rule of law. i consider it essential that members make every effort to coordinate their actions within the organs and bodies of the united nations system. but the european union is not a federal community and cannot represent the interests of all its members. each member state of the union should represent its national interests first. that is why i voted against this motion.
written. ‒ i support this report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. people with disabilities are often excluded from society and denied their basic human rights. i believe that we all need to do more to promote, defend and strengthen the human rights of all people with disabilities. all persons with all types of disabilities must enjoy all human rights and fundamental human freedoms.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities with special reference to the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities because i will always support and emphasise that all persons with disabilities have the right to live in a society where they have equal opportunities with others to enable their full inclusion and participation in society. it estimates that around 80 million people in the european union are living with a disability, of which approximately 46 million are women and girls, representing around 16% of the total female population of the eu. i agree with the report and believe that the eu institutions and member states should include the perspective of women and girls with disabilities in their gender equality policies, programmes and strategies, and the gender perspective in their disability strategies.
written. ‒ a truly tolerant and inclusive society must face the fact that persons with disabilities are its stakeholders who still face discrimination and the impossibility of accessing and exercising their basic human rights in many segments of daily life, such as the right to education, access to adapted housing, access to health and social services, particularly adapted health care and inclusion in the labour market, and are to a large extent victims of violence, especially women and girls. i believe that we need to do more to ensure that people with disabilities are recognised as equally valuable and important members of society and that they are given appropriate protection. only if we enable them to participate fully and equally in all social processes can we unlock their full potential which can contribute to overall progress. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development, in particular by ensuring that the union's policies are consistent with the objectives of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development.
written. ‒ people with disabilities are often marginalised and denied their human rights. it is necessary to promote, defend and ensure the implementation of the human rights of all persons with disabilities. we cannot allow people with disabilities to be denied their basic freedoms. in december 2010, the eu acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities as the first regional integration organisation. it was the first, and so far the only, international human rights treaty that the eu ratified in its entirety. the optional protocol has not been signed or ratified. the eu is under the supervision of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities following ratification. the convention is one of the human rights treaties with the largest number of states parties and signatories. the convention has been signed by all 28 eu member states and ratified by 25 except finland and ireland. at the time of this report, the netherlands is close to acceding to the convention. the convention covers a whole range of rights that cover all aspects of life, some of which are outside the eu's remit. the convention should therefore be implemented by the member states equally at all levels, including regional and national. i welcome the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and hope that parliament will continue to work to promote human rights.
‒ the european union acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in december 2010. it was the first, and so far the only, international human rights treaty to be ratified by the union in its entirety. the objective and purpose of this report is to focus on those recommendations which are within the union's competence and whose implementation at national level could encounter difficulties. the convention covers a whole range of rights that cover all aspects of life, some of which are outside the eu's remit. the convention should therefore be implemented by the member states equally at all levels, including regional and national. i support the motion for a resolution of the european parliament because i believe that the union, as a signatory to the convention, has a duty to ensure the full inclusion and active participation of persons with disabilities and their representative organisations in all decision-making processes on issues affecting persons with disabilities. there is no hierarchy of human rights and discrimination on the basis of disability must be fought in the same way as discrimination on any other basis.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities with particular reference to the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the resolution aims to prevent victimization and take steps to combat all forms of discrimination. forms of discrimination include: multiple discrimination, discrimination on grounds of connection, multidimensional discrimination on grounds of disability, in particular with regard to women and children with disabilities, older persons and persons with complex support needs, and discrimination related to intellectual and psychosocial disabilities and persons whose disabilities change over time. i would stress that the rapporteur is focusing on recommendations that fall within the union's competence and will pay particular attention to the union institutions themselves, which will be the model in the implementation of the convention.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission regulation amending regulation (eu) no 432/2012 establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health, as it calls on the commission to withdraw its draft regulation. this avoids the authorisation of the use of health claims for caffeine and prevents the manufacturers of energy drinks from using health claims on their energy drinks which are predominantly consumed by adolescents in quantities exceeding the recommended daily intake of caffeine, including products labelled as sugar-free. therefore, i support this objection.
written. ‒ i supported the objection requesting the commission to withdraw the proposal to amend regulation no 432/2012. i consider that the draft new commission regulation is not in line with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 on nutrition and health claims made on foods, which is to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to facilitate the choice of products by consumers in such a way that the properties of foods are correctly indicated. a varied and balanced diet is a prerequisite for good health. caffeine, as an ingredient in beverages and energy drinks, has both positive and negative properties and should be taken care of, especially when there is a possibility of its consumption by children or adolescents. caffeinated energy drinks contain sweeteners. the claim that 'caffeine contributes to increased endurance, alertness and concentration' does not provide full information about the product and its potentially negative characteristics. these health claims promote their use, resulting in caffeine and sugar intake above the recommended daily allowance, leading to weight problems and obesity. the proposed proposal is contrary to the requirement of regulation 1924/2006 to prohibit the use of health claims that encourage excessive food consumption and that such claims must not be ambiguous or misleading. for these reasons, i believe that the rules on food advertising should be better regulated by law.
written. ‒ article 4 of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 provides that the commission is to establish by 19 january 2009 the specific nutritional profiles to be met by a food or certain categories of food in order to be able to bear a nutrition or health claim and the conditions for the use of those nutrition or health claims for a food or category of food in relation to the nutritional profiles. unfortunately, the commission has not yet established these nutritional profiles. i note that a 250ml can of energy drink can contain up to 27 grams of sugar and 80 milligrams of caffeine. 68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks. since the energy drink industry has only committed itself in its optional code of practice for the advertising and labelling of energy drinks not to advertise energy drinks to children under 12 years of age, i consider that the draft commission regulation is not in line with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 and opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation.
written. ‒ a 250-ml can of energy drink may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine. a survey showed that 68 percent of teenagers and 8 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks. according to the draft commission regulation d44599/02, claims that caffeine helps to increase alertness and concentration should not be used for food products targeting children and adolescents. article 3 of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 provides that nutrition or health claims are not to be used to encourage or condone the excessive consumption of a food. i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament to oppose the adoption of the draft commission regulation because i find the claim that energy drinks increase concentration and help with learning to be worrying. this is problematic for a number of reasons: obesity, the effects of caffeine on the body, the development of taste in children, and the mixing of energy drinks with alcohol. children and young people are the victims of advertising campaigns, and it's our job to protect them.
written. ‒ the european parliament resolution on the draft commission regulation amending regulation (eu) no 432/2012 establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health, invites the commission to consider the introduction of restrictions with regard to energy drinks aimed at children and adolescents. however, the commission has not yet established the nutritional profiles that a food or a category of food must meet in order to be able to bear a nutrition or health claim and the conditions for the use of those nutrition or health claims for a food or a category of food. the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded in its scientific opinion that there is insufficient information available to determine a safe level of caffeine intake for children and that intake of 3 mg per kilogram of body weight per day is unlikely to be a safety concern for children and adolescents. that is why i voted against this resolution.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, this issue arose on the basis of a study carried out for poland, which concluded that the main non-tariff barriers are the increased frequency of sanitary checks, the requirements for additional certificates, the mandatory specific texts on the packaging, the obligation to keep documentation in the country of destination, etc. the commission also found that the non-injurious price was not a factor in the injury suffered by the union industry. that's what the study says. however, this study also talks about some non-tariff barriers that i personally think should be included, and that is for example the obligation to publish information on the origin of products because it is something we need to know, we need to know where the products come from, what these products are and what the composition of these products is. however, we have a single market, we have a single agricultural policy, we have a duty-free union and we have to have and create a real duty-free system with all the additional regulations that include all of these things that this study has indicated and possibly some other elements because i think that this way, how some countries function with each other and boycott each other and create administrative and other barriers, makes no sense. we need, in this very specific context, a truly single market with all the elements and all the regulations.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you for accepting my blue card. i want to ask you if you agree with me that you are a mere demagogue in this parliament when you talk about the presence of a representative in this parliament because i am one of the most seated in this parliament, and i know that when this question of mine is over, you will very likely leave this chamber and go to hungary or somewhere else. so i ask you, are you really acting in a very demagogic, populist way in this chamber? i think that's perfectly clear to everyone.
mr president, tariff-free barriers have existed since the european union was founded and free trade has existed, and it is therefore a very worrying finding from the oral question that the emergence of tariff-free barriers is actually increasing. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i therefore welcome the initiative of my colleague because it raises a very important issue, and i particularly welcome the announcement by commissioner bulc, that is the european commission, that they will investigate infringements of european laws and encourage member states to recognise products among themselves, which should ultimately lead to a reduction in non-tariff barriers.
mr. president, our business with china is getting bigger, more frequent, stronger, more complex. of course, we're dealing with a country that doesn't have a proper data retention system, and especially doesn't have a data protection system. and here we come to a serious problem. we're going to have a problem not just with china, but with many other countries that we do business with, because the protection of our citizens' data is always of a very questionable nature. so i would like to suggest that we don't discuss data going across the atlantic one time, and data going to china the other. let's try something else. let's try with the united states and other partners to create the world's first concepts of cybersecurity. because just as we need physical security, we need cyber security today. i really see no reason why the eu and its partners should not start this work now.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mrs zimmer, you have made it very clear that this move by germany and france can be called protectionism. do you see this as a move to make or break the eu?
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the commission's proposal and the proposal for this report, which gives the european union's heating and cooling strategy the right idea. in the european union, almost 50% of final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, 80% of which is in residential buildings. this energy consumption is dependent on fossil fuel consumption by 75%, while renewable energy sources account for only 18%. this is why the housing sector is the right place to invest more intensely to achieve the desired results in climate and energy policy. synergies with other eu policies, such as those aimed at renewable energy generation or energy efficiency in buildings, open up a whole new perspective for the european economy and thus for work and employment. all of this has the potential to trigger a new investment cycle, to create new jobs, from research and development, engineering, design, all the way to the small and medium-sized enterprises that design, build and then maintain these systems. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy and strengthening their competitiveness is of paramount importance for economic growth and reducing unemployment. i have never heard of a politician who is against the growth of competitiveness, but the vast majority of them with their ideas and actions make that process impossible, because they put too much tax and administrative burden on entrepreneurs. the excessive regulation of the market, which this house too often uses, can only hinder the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, as can the high taxes that finance oversized or even completely unnecessary public policies. smes will be more competitive if policy interferes less with their work and frees up space for them through regulatory guillotines and tax relief. therefore, i wholeheartedly support the refit programme which has so far been very successful in removing regulatory barriers. unfortunately, the creation of the single market has not in itself removed them, but in many industries we have simply added european regulations to national ones and thus actually increased the regulatory burden. i agree that we need to increase the use of funds, but we must bear in mind that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially from the new member states, often lack the necessary capacity. the rules and procedures should therefore be simplified as much as possible so that the money reaches its intended recipients more easily. otherwise, it will be used mainly by companies from more developed regions and member states, which is not in line with our cohesion objectives.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to highlight today a number of very interesting topics on our agenda when we talk about regional and cohesion policy, and to point out that our chair of the committee on regional development, mrs mihaylova, and our member mrs bresso have delivered excellent reports. in particular, the issue of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is a subject that is extremely important to us, extremely important, especially to us liberals, but also, as i hear from everyone else in this room. as rapporteur for the adriatic-ionian macro-region, i would like to take this opportunity to join the debate on the alpine macro-region, or the european union's alpine strategy. and here i want to highlight a global problem, a problem that is tied to all strategies. we have a historic three-way tie. no new structure when we talk about macro-regions, no funding for macro-regions, so no new funds, and we also have no new regulations. the macro-regions have come into being, they've started to function, and the baltic and the danube, the adriatic-ionian is here and the alpine is here now. we need to revisit these historic three no's and see how these macro-regions really live to the end.
madam president, the hundreds of thousands, millions of migrants waiting at the door of europe and coming today from the middle east or asian countries are more migrants whose arrival is caused by crises and wars. however, in the long run, there is no question that african citizens want to come to europe in large numbers. that is why i strongly support this european mutual fund for africa because i believe that it is precisely the concept that mr corrao has set out in seven points, but i want to emphasise the point of the long-term nature of this project and the integrity of this fund. integrity in a way that really helps all the key countries, but in the long run. it's a concept that we have to go for and that's why i'm one of those people here who really strongly wants to express support for this fund.
madam president, i have to say i liked your reaction when you saw that i lifted the paper and asked to catch the eye again. not because i often apply for catch the eye and try to get the catch the eye, but on this occasion i want to share my experience, 25 years in politics in a conservative country like croatia and trying to really create all possible conditions for gender equality and anti-discrimination approach in the labor market, but also in politics itself. when i made the party lists that i've run for many years, i always tried to have at least one woman be more than the men on the list. it's not easy. and it's good for men to talk about that. so i believe that it is the excellent messages that these reports of our colleagues here convey and of course you will always have in me an ally for such messages.
the birth rate in the european union has declined in recent decades and the union is facing worrying demographic challenges. the uncertainty of work and the harsh working conditions have a negative impact on family planning. the european union therefore needs targeted and proactive policies to support family life. the plan presented by the commission is not a final solution, but it is certainly a good starting point for encouraging positive demographic trends. work-life balance policies need to be well-designed, as they are key to improving the working environment, which in turn generates good working conditions and social and business welfare. this includes addressing gender inequalities in paid and unpaid work and promoting equal sharing of responsibilities, costs and childcare. the fact that there is still a significant gender pay gap is of particular concern, which is not in line with the values we advocate in the european union. i believe that the guidelines set out in the report on creating favourable conditions in the labour market for achieving a balance between private and professional life are a good starting point for reconciling work and family life, which should be guaranteed as a fundamental right for all people, without gender discrimination.
madam president, what is the future of the european union after brexit? when i listen to some of the speeches here and when i look at some of my colleagues, i feel like i've seen it all together 25 years ago. i mean, what we were watching when yugoslavia was falling apart. could brexit really be the prelude to the break-up of the european union? i personally don't want that. in fact, i want the opposite. i want to bring to the fore the discussions that took place the other day on strengthening the defence systems of the european union, on greater cohesion, which was also discussed by the members of the visegrad group, on some confederal or federal model. i see this as the future of the european union. but on the other hand, if we do not change our policies objectively and quickly, and in this parliament, we risk more disintegration than success.
madam president, there were many topics on the agenda at the g20 meeting and i should simply say that two topics, which are actually completely intertwined with each other, namely the issue of migration and the refugee crisis and the issue of economic growth, were for me really key topics. i can say that, in a way, encouraging messages are coming from the g20. after all, the very fact that the g20 is dealing with the migrant crisis shows the seriousness and maturity of the moment. on the other hand, economic growth is linked to what the migrant crisis means, especially when we talk about africa, and it gives us a very clear indication of what we need to do in the coming years. i think that in this particular case the european union must show its strength and unity, because otherwise, if there are no concrete actions and concrete results, a lot of things will go wrong, and we certainly do not need that.
written. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. i welcome the speech by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, who said that we must defend the interests of the european steel industry, in which 10 000 jobs have been lost in recent years, and i support his efforts to help china to accept the creation of a mechanism to monitor overcapacity in the steel sector. one of the negative consequences for croatia is the impossibility of successful business of the ironworks in split and sisak where several hundred jobs were irreversibly destroyed as a result of price movements on the world market, but also other problems. i would also like to welcome the eu-china agreement to establish a global forum to monitor overcapacity. for europeans, and therefore for croats, an adequate solution to this problem is of great importance before accepting the granting of market economy status to china and deciding on trade defence measures on the european market. decisions taken at global level affect all member states and jobs, so by preventing dumping and establishing fair market relations, we contribute to protecting european industry and jobs.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) given the central role of ris3 in contributing to the europe 2020 objectives of cohesion policy and given that ris3 strategies should help to strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy, develop european added value in innovation and create more and better high-quality jobs. the development of the ris3 strategy shall include a process of developing governance mechanisms to identify concrete areas of greatest strategic potential and to set strategic priorities. smart specialisation strategies support thematic concentration and strategic programming within the european structural and investment funds, thereby improving the impact on the ground. the s3 seville platform should pay particular attention to the lagging regions and provide them with assistance in shaping and directing their strategies. the problem is that some member states have established national ris3 strategies in such a way that local and regional authorities have not been given the chance to shape their own views.
written. ‒ one of the priorities of cohesion policy is to develop research, technological development and innovation, which is the focus of the ris3 strategies. the ultimate goal of these strategies is to create sustainable and inclusive economic growth, which is imperative for the eu as it is in an economic, financial and social crisis. i support this resolution because of the views and provisions mentioned. the resolution makes clear that ris3 strategies are aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy and at contributing to the development of entrepreneurship, achieving balanced development and creating high-quality jobs. in addition, these strategies contribute to the efficient use of eu funds and therefore affect all member states with the aim of unlocking the potential of all regions. the resolution proposes certain standards and guidelines in this regard, such as adhering to the new provisions on ex ante conditionality for the allocation of esi funds and supporting the role of the s3 platform. the resolution also stresses the importance of a 'bottom-up' process, whereby each member state should give local and regional authorities a chance to shape their own positions.
written. ‒ whereas in these times of economic, financial and social crisis the eu needs to invest more effort in creating smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, and the timely and successful development of ris3 strategies in the member states depends heavily on their increasing administrative capacity for programming, budgeting, implementation and evaluation within the policy framework to increase private investment in r&d and innovation. in the context of these developments, account should be taken of the fact that the initial assessments of smart specialisation strategies have produced a vague picture, in particular with regard to the selection of priorities that were often considered to be too general or insufficiently linked to regional economic and innovation structures, which means that smart specialisation strategies need to be improved in this respect. in view of the above, i support the adoption of the report.
written. ‒ research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) are a condition for funding from the european structural and investment funds. ris3 shall support thematic concentrations and strategic programming of european social fund funds and shall seek to improve implementation on the ground. this report gives us the first indicators of the implementation of the strategy for the period 2014-2019. in times of economic, financial and social crisis, the eu must do more to create smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. i support this motion for a resolution on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation, as i believe it is important that smart specialisation combines and links different policies, in particular entrepreneurship, education and innovation policies, so that regions can identify and select priority areas for their development and link investments by focusing on their strengths and relative advantages. the ultimate objective is to create more high-quality jobs and to contribute to the dissemination of good practices and the development of a new entrepreneurial spirit through the strategies.
written. ‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3), because it encourages job creation, and high-quality jobs that should be created not only in developed areas but also in transitionally less developed regions. i believe that the social innovations just proposed will contribute to the establishment of new business models and cultures. i believe that this report is a good way forward for the successful development of europe and the member states, especially the less developed regions.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative measures, since i know very well from the experience of the mayors of the istrian county the value of territorial cooperation programmes, especially for new or future member states. at one time, istria county was the most successful croatian region in using eu funds, especially those from the cross-border cooperation programme with slovenia and the cross-border cooperation programme on the adriatic. these programmes have helped us in particular to prepare the institutions and citizens for the eu, but also to adopt advanced development solutions modelled on the then developed regions in the member states. territorial cooperation programmes are an excellent instrument for overcoming differences between member states, particularly regions in cross-border areas, and for achieving social and economic cohesion. unfortunately, territorial cooperation accounts for only 2.8% of the total cohesion policy resources. there is a current problem of weak implementation due to the late adoption of operational programmes, but also a permanent problem of numerous obstacles to implementation, often linked to the bureaucratic approach of the work of the management bodies.
written. ‒ european territorial cooperation has become one of the most important objectives of eu cohesion policy and therefore deserves not only our full attention but also support for the new plans that eu cohesion policy creates. interregional cooperation at international level between eu member states, but also outside the eu, has so far proved to be a very fruitful field of cooperation: it has contributed to better cooperation and convergence between member states, economic progress, institutional capacity building, adaptation to climate change, etc. european territorial cooperation is also important for a whole range of other factors, such as eu enlargement, encouraging the development of islands and other sparsely populated regions and the refugee crisis. european territorial cooperation can help in all this. the resolution's proposals to increase the budget for european territorial cooperation, to overcome the obstacles to border cooperation, to simplify administrative requirements and, above all, to ensure that programmes in this field are not delayed but are effectively implemented in time are good and commendable, and that is why i support the resolution.
written. ‒ given that some 38% of europe's population lives in border regions, that the eu is facing a major economic, financial and social crisis that particularly affects women in all areas, and that there is a need for a joint review of the structure of european territorial cooperation after 2020, the full added value of european territorial cooperation programmes cannot be assessed by quantitative indicators alone. i therefore join the calls on the commission to develop more qualitative indicators to better reflect the results achieved through territorial cooperation and i support the adoption of this report. effective cross-border and transnational cooperation leads to a greater attractiveness of a given geographical area for companies, in a way that makes the most efficient use of local, regional and cross-border potential and human capital in order to better meet the needs and expectations of companies and avoid phenomena such as the relocation of companies to third countries, depopulation of eu regions and increased unemployment.
written. ‒ interreg is a key instrument for achieving territorial cohesion through the support of a number of programmes and projects with strong european added value, with a particular impact on 60 european border regions. this report gives us an overview of the measures and added value of european territorial cooperation, best practices and contributions to the europe 2020 objectives. cross-border cooperation projects are showing concrete results: they are removing obstacles to progress in the areas of security, transport, education, energy, health, training and employment. i support this motion for a resolution on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative measures because i believe that crossborder cooperation is key to the progress of border regions. however, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between different funding mechanisms and cooperation such as macro-regional strategies and to strengthen links and coherence with national and regional programmes. the parties agree to cooperate in the development of a common strategy for the prevention of and response to the emerging threats to the international security of the region, including the development of a common strategy for the prevention of and response to the emerging threats to the international security of the region.
written. ‒ i supported the report on european territorial cooperation, which aims to remove remaining obstacles to investment and crossborder cooperation, strengthen cohesion and stimulate the union's economic and social development. i consider that european territorial cooperation is of paramount importance for strengthening regional cooperation and integration in island regions, the outermost regions, the less developed regions and mountain and rural areas. in particular, i support the call for member states to make greater use of integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (clld), new tools in cohesion policy.
written. ‒ the exhaust gas scandal is in fact an attack on the health and consumer rights of citizens and the economy of the european union and its member states. the release of nitrous oxide, which is particularly harmful to the liver, lungs and blood counts of citizens, has been considered. they were cheated by selling more expensive cars that were supposedly less harmful to the environment. i support this report and hope that the work of emis will contribute to shedding light on the scandal and preventing new ones.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector because i strongly support the continuation of the committee's work to make a concrete contribution to the union type-approval framework. in this context, the unconditional support of the european commission through political and technical assistance is needed. the committee shall be composed of representatives of the parties, including representatives of the european parliament, of the council, of the commission, of the european economic and social committee and of the committee of the regions. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. while the committee is working according to its work plan, it is necessary to pursue with greater strength and determination the investigation of all the items included in its mandate and i therefore support this interim report.
written. ‒ i welcome the work of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector on the inquiry into emission measurements. this report reminds us that we are following the establishment of the facts in order to shed light on all the causes and circumstances that led to one of the biggest scandals in recent european history. in addition to its measurable economic effects on all those employed in the automotive sector, this scandal is also damaging the reputation of the european industry, in particular the automotive industry, which faces strong competition on the world market. the most serious consequences of this scandal are, however, those affecting citizens' trust in the eu institutions and national states. the citizens' trust in the union's common project, in the correctness, appropriateness and consistency of european policies is being undermined. our credibility, as well as that of the eu institutions, can only be restored if the commission fully fulfils its mandate - establishing compliance by the member states and the commission with the obligations laid down in regulation (ec) no 715/2007 (homologation), establishing whether the commission and the member states had evidence of the use of jamming devices, and also information on the implementation of directive 2007/46/ec (homologation implementation) by the member states. while the european parliament does not have jurisdiction over the judiciary, it is important that states also have credibility and take appropriate judicial action if criminal responsibility of individuals or groups of stakeholders is established.
the draft interim report of the emis committee is intended to provide a summary of the activities of that committee since its establishment on 2 march 2016 and to outline the forthcoming work plan for the first half of the emis committee's mandate. since article 226 tfeu provides the european parliament with the legal basis to set up a temporary committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches or irregularities in the implementation of union law, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts, and since this is an important component of parliament's oversight powers, i agree with the view that the committee of inquiry should continue its work and fully implement the mandate given to it by parliament in its decision of 17 december 2015 and i support all measures and initiatives leading to the fulfilment of the mandate.
written. ‒ on the basis of a proposal from the conference of presidents, parliament decided in december 2015 to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged failures in the application of union law on emission measurements in the automotive sector. the work plan of the committee of inquiry shall cover the hearing of relevant witnesses and experts, written evidence, official trips, commissioned summaries and expert opinion studies, and the official written opinion of the legal service of the european parliament on the summons to testify of persons who may be called upon to participate in the judicial proceedings. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the technical specifications for the type-approval of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units. i support the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector in order to fully implement the mandate of the committee of inquiry entrusted to it by parliament with the support of the conference of presidents, the presidency and the commission and the assistance of the governments, parliaments and competent authorities of the member states.
written. ‒ i support the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. i consider that the results of such investigations could bring added value to the union type-approval framework without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts. the interim report of the emis board shall also contain a summary overview of the activities of the board since its establishment and outline the upcoming work plan for the first half of the term of office. i consider that investigations into alleged breaches or irregularities in the application of union law relating to emission measurements in the automotive sector will be of great benefit to the citizens of the european union.
written. - i support the request to waive the immunity of istvan uhelyi.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request to waive the immunity of istvan ujhelyi because that was the position of the alde group.
written. ‒ since the charges against mr istván ujhelyi are not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and therefore absolute immunity under article 8 of protocol no 7 is not applicable, i support the decision to waive immunity.
written. ‒ during the programme egyenes beszed (open talks) broadcast on the hungarian tv channel atv on 25 april 2014, istván ujhelyi stated that he opposed the candidacy of tamás sneider for the post of vice-president of the hungarian parliament and in this regard cited allegedly controversial statements of mr sneider. i support the report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of istván ujhelyi pursuant to article 226, paragraph 1 of act c of the hungarian criminal code of 2012, according to which any person who publicly states as fact something that may damage someone's reputation or honor, spreads rumors or directly refers to such a claim, constitutes a criminal act of defamation that is punishable.
written. - i support the request to waive the immunity of istvan uhelyi. i consider this justified, since his statement was made at a time when he was not a member of the european parliament. the charges against istván ujhelyi are not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and therefore i consider that the competent authorities should investigate the possible criminal offence.
written. - i support the motion to protect the privileges and immunities of rosario crocette.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of ms rosaria crocetta because mr crocetta has always been active in the fight against organised crime and its influence on politics and the economy. since mr crocetta was a member of the european parliament when the statements in question were made, and in view of the need to protect freedom of expression and the independence of members of the european parliament in the performance of their parliamentary duties, i support this report.
written. ‒ as mr crocette's parliamentary activities show that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states, and that he has also focused on the impact of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, especially in the area of public procurement in the field of environmental policy, i agree with the decision to preserve the privileges and immunities of my colleague.
‒ former member of the european parliament rosario crocetta has applied for the protection of her parliamentary immunity in connection with the criminal proceedings pending before the third criminal chamber of the court of palermo. according to a statement from the public prosecutor's office, mr. crocetta allegedly made defamatory statements, which is punishable under article 595 of the italian criminal code. i support the report on the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of ms rosaria crocette, since, in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of interrogation, detention or prosecution for expressing opinions or voting in the performance of their duties, and since this immunity must be considered as absolute immunity from any judicial proceedings for expressing opinions or voting in the performance of parliamentary duties.
written. ‒ i agree with this proposal because, according to the decision of the european parliament, its members may not be subject to any form of examination or judicial proceedings for expressing their opinions in the performance of their duties. moreover, the immunity enjoyed by members is not a personal privilege of those members but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and, therefore, of its members. attorney crocetta was involved in the fight against organized crime, and because of that, throughout his tenure, he always warned of the hidden but dangerous consequences of organized crime. for the reasons stated above, the statements made by mr crocette may be directly related to his activities as a member of the european parliament and for that reason i accept and welcome the decision to protect his privileges and immunities as a member.
written. - i support the request to waive the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos.
written. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision to request the waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos on the grounds that it is a case of alleged criminal offence. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the draft measure. given that the said criminal proceedings are not related to the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and do not concern the expression of an opinion or the vote, i support this report lifting the immunity of mr zarianopoulos.
written. ‒ since there is nothing to indicate that the criminal proceedings in question were motivated by the intention to harm the political activity of the representative (fumus persecutionis), especially considering that all the then members of the municipal council were involved in these proceedings, i support the decision to waive the immunity of my colleague sotirios zarianopoulos.
‒ the prosecutor of the hellenic supreme court has requested that the member of the european parliament sotirios zarianopoulos be deprived of his parliamentary immunity in connection with the planned criminal proceedings concerning the crimes in thessaloniki (abm case a2015/1606) and which was published in the plenary session of 27 april 2016. i support the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos as the criminal proceedings in question are in no way connected with sotirios zarianopoulos' status as a member of the european parliament, but with his previous term as a member of the municipal council of thessaloniki.
written. ‒ i supported the request to waive the immunity of deputy sotirios zarianopoulos, which relates to the non-fulfilment of legal obligations in the session and to the allegedly illegal issuance of permits by the municipal council of thessaloniki for the use of public areas in the form of the installation of a terrace in the pedestrian zone. in particular, since the criminal proceedings in question do not concern the expression of an opinion or the voting of a member in the course of his duties as a member of the european parliament, it can be concluded that the proceedings were not brought with the intention of harming the political activities of the member. this procedure has involved all the then members of the municipal council and i believe it is necessary to allow the competent institutions to conduct a full investigation in order to determine any responsibility for the said acts.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation which is technical in nature. it aims to conclude an eu-china agreement, taking into account croatia's accession to the eu and adjustments to customs tariffs, as well as wto requirements.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of preferences in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union, as i consider that the proposal for inclusion in the agreement should be supported as it contains proportionate modifications of preferences and is in line with the previous practice and framework of the wto. the commission has taken into account the reports of the commission stating that the relevant compensatory adjustments are proportionate to china and do not exceed the chinese rights affected by the termination of the croatian benefits to china. the general agreement on tariffs and trade rightly emphasises that the purpose of a customs union or free trade area should be 'to facilitate trade between self-governing territories, and not to raise barriers to trade between other members and those territories'.
written. ‒ i support the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china. the accession of croatia to the european union, the people's republic of china have been reduced to a lesser extent trade rights due to the enlargement of the eu customs union. the commission has not received any comments from the goc or the exporting producers. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties regarding the alleged subsidy. the republic of croatia has certainly contributed to the expansion of this market by its accession to the eu and as a croatian representative i hope that the republic of croatia will also be able to benefit from this compensation agreement. the purpose of the customs union itself should be to facilitate trade between autonomous areas, not to raise barriers to trade between other member states and those areas. the agreement was considered by several parties and the foreign affairs committee supported the proposal and stated that the relevant compensatory adjustments are proportionate to china and do not exceed the chinese rights affected by the termination of croatian concessions to china. this agreement is further evidence that the eu supports the multilateral trading system, but also respects the eto trade rules.
written. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has expanded its customs union. therefore, the european union had to enter into negotiations with wto member states having negotiating rights related to the customs tariff of croatia on the basis of the world trade organisation (wto) rules (article xxiv, paragraph 6 of gatt 1994) in order to eventually agree on a compensatory adjustment. such adjustment shall be made if the adoption of the eu's external tariff regime leads to an increase in customs duties above the level to which the acceding country has committed itself at the wto. on 15 july 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations under article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994. the commission has negotiated with wto member states having negotiating rights concerning the withdrawal of certain preferences in relation to the withdrawal of the republic of croatia from the list in the context of its accession to the european union. having regard to the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of preferences in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union (15562/2015), i agree to the recommendation on the conclusion of this agreement.
written. ‒ the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has enlarged the customs union. under the rules of the world trade organisation, the european union had to enter into negotiations with wto member states having negotiating rights related to the customs tariff of croatia in order to eventually agree on a compensatory adjustment to be implemented if the adoption of the eu external tariff system leads to an increase in customs duties above the level to which the acceding country has committed itself at the wto. i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and china on the modification of the preferences on the list of the republic of croatia in the framework of its accession to the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the exporting producers concerned. since i consider that the agreement contains proportionate modifications to the benefits and is in line with previous practice and the wto framework, i voted in favour of its adoption.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation which is technical in nature. it aims at the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and uruguay, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu and the adjustment of customs tariffs, as well as wto requirements.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union, as this gives its consent to the conclusion of this agreement. following the accession of croatia to the eu, the customs union was enlarged and therefore negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay were necessary to agree on a compensatory adjustment, given that the external tariff system leads to an increase in customs duties. the european parliament's consent to this draft council is a mandatory part of the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol.
written. ‒ i support the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay. the agreement is in line with the eu's practice from previous enlargements and builds on the eu's practice in line with its external action policy. the eu has concluded an agreement with wto member states, under which the eu undertakes that in any enlargement a third country importing into the european single market will be entitled to higher quotas. the republic of croatia has certainly contributed to the expansion of this market by its accession to the eu and as a croatian representative i hope that the republic of croatia will also be able to benefit from part of the benefits of this compensation agreement. with the accession of croatia to the european union, the union has widened its borders, which means an increase in the quota for the eastern republic of uruguay to export products to the eu, but also additional facilities for the eu to export products to uruguay. this agreement is further evidence that the eu supports the multilateral trading system, but also respects the wto's trade rules.
‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has expanded its customs union and therefore, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv, paragraph 6 of the gatt 1994), it had to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the tariff schedule of croatia in order to eventually agree a compensatory adjustment, given that the external tariff system leads to an increase in customs duties. the negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay resulted in a draft agreement which was initialled on 18 december 2015 in nairobi. at the same time, a separate proposal for the signature of that agreement was submitted and the council decision on signature was adopted on 11 april 2016. the european union will include in its schedule for the customs territory of the eu 28 concessions contained in the schedule of the eu 27 with the amendments related to the tariff quotas for beef. the european commission is also preparing an implementing regulation in relation to several tariff quotas. having regard to the draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union (06871/2016), i support the position on the conclusion of the agreement.
written. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has expanded its customs union. in view of the rules of the world trade organisation, the european union had to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay regarding the tariff schedule of croatia in order to eventually agree a compensatory adjustment given that the external tariff system leads to an increase in customs duties. i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union, and the agreement to the conclusion of the agreement.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on the proposed appointment of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors, as i consider that the qualifications of the proposed candidate fulfil the conditions necessary for mr lazarou to be appointed to that post. the court of auditors has also provided mr lazarou with the necessary expertise to carry out his duties as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ on the basis of the cv of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou, as well as the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i support the appointment of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the european court of auditors. his work highlights his duties as a member of the i. audit board conservation and management of natural resources, as a member of the ii. audit board structural policies, transport and energy and as a temporary member of the cead horizontal audit board coordination, evaluation, guarantee and development. he has been working with the european commission where he led the work to reach an agreement on quantifying errors in public procurement and setting an earlier date for the publication of the annual report and monitoring progress towards that goal. in his work, he has proven himself to be a professional, responsible, competent and honest person. he has outstanding audit skills and experience as he is specialised in the field of audit.
written. ‒ having regard to the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, which assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having delivered a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors, i support the rapporteur's position.
written. ‒ parliament's committee on budgetary control, having assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and after having held a hearing of the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors, has given a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors. i support the draft decision on the proposed appointment, as i consider that the parliamentary committee is competent to give a meaningful opinion on the qualifications of the candidate.
written. ‒ i supported the reappointment of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors, as mr lazarou has been performing his duties as an auditor of the correctness of the collection and use of eu funds in various positions at the court since november 2010. given that mr lazarou has set out his objectives for his future mandate, i am confident that he will continue to discharge his duties as a member of the court of auditors with integrity and efficiency.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on the proposed appointment of mr joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors, as i consider that mr figueiredo has the necessary professional and vocational experience for the post in question. mr figueiredo has been a judge at the portuguese court of auditors, worked in the portuguese ministry of finance and justice and has held a number of positions which have enabled him to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills to perform competently the function of member of the court of auditors. in addition, the outcome of the hearing held in the committee on budgetary control was positive and i therefore support his appointment.
written. ‒ joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo has done a lot for the people of portugal. it influenced the structure and functioning of the state and portuguese society as a whole. he carried out the reforms of the portuguese public administration in which he: reorganised the public administration, introduced the public sector employment reform, created a system of evaluation of public services, managers and employees, where for the first time in the portuguese public sector a system of evaluation of public services and managers was introduced, together with a system to measure the performance of all civil servants. he introduced reforms to the social security system for civil servants and controls on the employment and mobility of human resources. it also introduced the control exercised by the court of auditors on public-private partnership contracts for the concession of motorways, the reform of the system for the control of juvenile delinquency and the operation of the system for the electronic surveillance of offenders in portugal. all of the above makes him a good candidate for the european court of auditors.
written. ‒ having regard to the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, which assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having given a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint joao alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors, i support the rapporteur's position.
written. ‒ parliament's committee on budgetary control, having assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and after having held a hearing of the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors, has given a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr joão de figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors. i support the draft decision on the proposed appointment, as i consider that the parliamentary committee is competent to give a meaningful opinion on the qualifications of the candidate.
written. ‒ i supported the portuguese government's candidate for a member of the court of auditors because i believe that his previous professional experience will be a good basis for the performance of audit duties. the candidate is a lawyer by profession, with eight years' experience as a judge at the portuguese court of auditors, and has been secretary of state for public administration, ministry of finance, government of portugal and chief auditor of the portuguese court of auditors. therefore, i believe that this candidate will be successful in his duties as an audit judge.
written. ‒ i voted against the european parliament's motion for a decision on the proposed appointment of leo brinkat as a member of the court of auditors, because that was the position of the alde group.
written. ‒ the court of auditors is one of the institutional pillars of the european union. among other things, the court audits eu revenue and expenditure, checks that eu funds are correctly collected and used, that they are accurately represented and that they deliver value for money, checks any person or organisation that manages eu funds, including on-the-spot checks in the eu institutions (in particular the commission), eu member states and countries receiving eu aid, presents findings and makes recommendations in audit reports to the european commission and national governments, and reports possible fraud, corruption or other illegal activities to the european anti-fraud office (olaf). mr. brincat was a minister in the maltese government. it was found that during this period malta sold its citizenship to non-eu nationals for eur 650 000. members of that government are also mentioned in the panama papers affair, which is related to tax evasion. in view of the reputation of the court, which must be impeccable and which depends on the composition of the honorary representatives of the member states, i consider that the appointment of mr brincat as a member of the court of auditors, whose main task is to supervise the expenditure of european taxpayers' money, would undermine the credibility of the court.
written. ‒ having regard to the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament on the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having given a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors, i agree with the rapporteur's recommendation.
written. ‒ parliament's committee on budgetary control, having assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and after having held a hearing of the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors, has given a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors. i do not support the motion for a resolution on the proposed appointment, because of the unclear stance towards ministers in the government who were linked to the international financial scandal panama papers. also, minister brincat was against malta joining the eu and the eurozone, so i don't think he fits the profile of a member of the court of auditors.
written. - i have supported the nomination of mr leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors as i believe he is qualified for that position. the auditors are to contribute to improving the way the european commission manages the budget of the european union and to report on eu finances. as the maltese government's candidate, mr brincat, is a member of the first inter-party committee set up in 1995 to introduce transparency and regulation in the financing of political parties and a founder and chairman of the public accounts committee in the house of representatives, a body that strengthens the links between the national audit office and parliament, i believe that the experience will help him in his new role.
written. ‒ i support this report which aligns the previous post-lisbon treaty committee regime on delegated and implementing acts to allow for the systematic production of community external trade statistics.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries, as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures, as i consider that, after numerous harmonisation of a large number of regulations and negotiations and the adoption of a new 2015 interinstitutional agreement between the ep and the council, a common position and an agreement have been reached. this year, the european parliament's committee on international trade voted overwhelmingly in favour of the agreed text.
written. ‒ given the need to align trade policy decision-making with the new regime of implementing and delegated acts and given that, following negotiations, the negotiating teams of parliament and the council reached an agreement on the regulation in question and that the rapporteur's proposal was also supportive, i voted in favour of the recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries, as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures.
written. ‒ most of the rules in the area of the common commercial policy have been brought into line with the new constitutional order through the joint trade acts i and ii and in several subsequent individual alignments. the commission has undertaken to present the next set of harmonisations under the comitology procedure for those legislative acts for which the regulatory procedure with scrutiny is provided for by the end of the seventh parliamentary session. in this regard, the commission proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that provides for a regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the adoption of a new interinstitutional agreement in december 2015 thus enabled the negotiating teams of parliament and the council to reach an agreement on the regulation in question. the agreed text was submitted to the inta committee for approval on 21 april 2016 and was approved by a large majority. the chairman of the committee, following the approval vote on the same day, recommended in a letter to the chairman of the committee of permanent representatives (coreper) that the council's position be confirmed in plenary at first reading without amendment. following legal and linguistic scrutiny, the council adopted its position at first reading on 16 june 2016, thereby confirming the agreement. in the light of the above, i support the rapporteur's position that the council's position at first reading be approved without amendment.
written. ‒ in the light of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty and subsequently by the adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/201, the commission had to adapt the rules on trade policy decision-making to the new regime of implementing and delegated acts. the commission has proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that provides for a regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the adoption of the interinstitutional agreement in december 2015 thus enabled the negotiating teams of parliament and the council to reach an agreement on the regulation in question. having examined the legal and linguistic background, the council adopted its position at first reading on 16 june 2016. i support the recommendation for the second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries, as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures.
written. ‒ i agree with the amendment of the regulation on community external trade statistics with non-member countries concerning the delegation of delegated and implementing powers to the commission to adopt certain measures, as i believe that the commission should adapt the rules on trade policy decision-making to the new regime of implementing and delegated acts. most of the rules relating to the common commercial policy have been brought into line with the new systemic order. as the commission should ensure that delegated acts are not imposed with additional administrative burden on member states and their representatives when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, i voted in favour.
written. ‒ i support this report which is a regulation on the collection of statistical data on gas and electricity prices, turning gentlemen's agreement into regulations for domestic prices. laws already exist for industrial prices. the content, therefore, is not in dispute.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european gas and electricity price statistics and repealing directive 2008/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council on a community procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices charged to industrial end-users, as i consider that quality and accurate data on gas and electricity prices for households is necessary to ensure a high level of market coverage. the collection of price data should not result in an additional burden for reporting bodies and the competent national authorities will continue to collect price data. the objective of this report is to clarify the objectives, simplify certain provisions for reporting bodies and companies providing natural gas and electricity price data, in order to avoid misunderstandings, inaccurate data and unclear results.
written. ‒ the aim of the proposed regulation is to change the eu's energy policy so that households and businesses can buy energy in a safe, sustainable and affordable way. i support the proposal for a regulation because i see the creation of mechanisms that will lead to more efficient collection of reliable data on natural gas and electricity prices as a positive step. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the energy market and to take into account the impact of the measures on the environment. this is the reason why i consider this regulation to be justified. it therefore aims to standardise certain rules on the calculation of natural gas and electricity prices at the level of the european union, leading to the establishment of a common framework and more efficient implementation. furthermore, the regulation requires member states to guarantee the credibility of the data collection and processing system, which will lead to greater transparency.
written. ‒ having regard to articles 294 (2) and 338 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, pursuant to which the commission has submitted the proposal to parliament (c8-0357/2015), and article 294 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i support the adoption of the position at first reading.
written. ‒ since the 1970s, the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices. in 1990, the council adopted a directive to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices charged to industrial users. the directive does not cover end-users in households. the household data were collected on a voluntary basis. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the collection of data on prices and the collection of data on prices for the purposes of the reporting of the annual accounts of the competent authorities. i support this proposal for a regulation because i believe that the collection of data on the prices of natural gas and electricity charged to household end-users should be mandatory, as this ensures the quality of the price data survey for the household sector and the high quality of the price data.
written. ‒ the proposed legislation will cover the collection of data on natural gas and electricity prices for the household and non-household consumer sectors. the report aims to simplify certain provisions for reporting bodies and reporting companies and to avoid misunderstandings. the commission has also concluded that the proposed price data collection should not result in an additional burden for reporting bodies, and i therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'meeting the new energy market model', as the further integration of the energy market that is needed also requires new solutions to ensure a secure, cheap, efficient and environmentally sustainable supply of energy. the energy system of the future needs to be more flexible in terms of generation, distribution, demand and storage. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the capacity of the electricity grid is sufficient to meet the needs of the union market. the growing share of various renewable energy sources and the development of new smart grids and new decentralised generation technologies should also be properly foreseen. the new investment will need to combine the european fund for strategic investments and other specific sources of energy financing such as the connecting europe facility. the new model should be based on a holistic, future-oriented approach with the aim of an integrated, stable and secure energy supply.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a new energy market model and generally for the modernisation of an energy market that is sustainable and environmentally friendly. in all eu member states, unsustainable models should be reduced as much as possible and renewable energy sources given a high priority. more funds are needed to invest in new plants to produce such energy. the current electricity system needs to change, putting emphasis on low-carbon renewable energy. the electricity market is still nationalised and energy prices for standard households are too high. the price of energy in general in the world is increasing and increasing, so there is also a growing demand for an alternative way of energy production that is more expensive to implement, but later more cost-effective than the current systems. the common energy policy is a good initiative, but because of the diversity of countries it will be difficult to implement, especially because of the divergence of national conditions in each country. i agree that a market analysis is needed and that the existing funding systems need to be reviewed. the promotion of renewable energy sources is of paramount importance for achieving the eu's climate objectives.
written. ‒ the integration of energy markets, together with the integration of all market players, including producer-consumers, will contribute to the treaty objective of secure, affordable, efficient and environmentally sustainable energy supply, and the energy system will need to be more flexible in the future to meet climate and energy objectives, which requires investment in all four flexibility solutions, namely flexible generation, network development, demand flexibility and storage. welcomes the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the electricity market, including the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, and the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard;
written. ‒ the european commission's plans must contribute to energy efficiency, security of energy supply and the development of renewable energy sources. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. the integration of energy markets will contribute to the objective of a secure, cheap, efficient and environmentally sustainable energy supply. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy. it is necessary to combine the resources of the european fund for strategic investments with sources of financing in the energy sector in order to make market-making as efficient as possible. today, more than half of the eu's electricity is produced without the emission of greenhouse gases. i support this report because i believe that the european union needs a new energy market model that will enhance regional cooperation in all dimensions of energy supply and demand. the market will become more decentralised and flexible and will contribute to the achievement of the european union's energy and climate objectives.
written. ‒ the report on 'meeting the new energy market model' enhances regional cooperation in all dimensions of energy supply and demand. it also proposes the creation of a new energy market that should be well regulated and contribute to the achievement of all the european union's energy objectives. however, while i support the elements of this report, i cannot support the fact that the new energy union strategy is designed to put the european union at the forefront of renewable energy. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support this report on the eu's strategy for heating and cooling. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the light of the new energy efficiency and climate change objectives set out in the energy union strategy.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the eu's heating and cooling strategy because i believe that member states need to make real progress in transforming heating and cooling, which are part of the wider energy system. given that almost 50% of the final energy demand in the eu is used for heating and cooling, and that these sectors vary widely across member states due to different energy source structures, climatic conditions, building efficiency levels and industrial intensity, flexibility should be ensured in the choice of appropriate strategic solutions to make those systems more efficient, sustainable and cost-effective. the eu heating and cooling strategy prioritises areas of action and aims to achieve an efficient sector that increases energy security and facilitates the cost-effective achievement of the eu's climate and energy objectives.
written. ‒ i welcome the proposal for an eu strategy for heating and cooling and support all forms of energy efficiency and sustainability. with climate change affecting us recently, it is important to 'green' every activity as soon as possible and try to design the best solutions for a sustainable environment. i am in favour of using renewable energy sources as much as possible to contribute to a better state of nature and the environment. more investment is needed to research advanced heating and cooling systems and to remove all inefficient and environmentally harmful heating and cooling methods. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. energy renovation is needed for all buildings that do not have an efficient energy system. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of buildings. i hope that eu citizens and all bodies will see the need for better energy solutions to ensure a sustainable environment for future generations.
written. ‒ nearly 50% of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, 80% of which is in buildings; as the 2015 paris agreement on climate change (cop21) should be reflected in the heating and cooling sector. the heating and cooling sector, in order to be in line with the eu's energy and climate objectives, should be based on 100% renewable energy sources by 2050 at the latest, which can only be achieved by reducing energy consumption and making full use of the 'energy efficiency first' principle or 'energy efficiency as fuel of first choice'. every 1 percent increase in energy savings reduces gas imports by 2.6 percent. given that the market in the heating and cooling sector in the eu is fragmented due to its local nature and the different technologies and economic actors involved in the process, and that the local and regional dimension is key to the introduction of appropriate policies in the heating and cooling sector for the planning and implementation of heating and cooling infrastructure and for the consultation of consumers in order to remove barriers and make heating and cooling systems more efficient and sustainable, i support the rapporteur's position and the adoption of this report.
written. ‒ 50% of the final energy demand in the european union is used for heating and cooling. the heating and cooling sector needs to be 100% renewable in order to meet the eu's 2050 energy and climate targets. 1 per cent increase in energy savings reduces gas imports by 2.6 per cent. the share of renewable energy in the heating and cooling sector is increasing, but there is huge potential at all levels to exploit it even more, in particular in residential buildings, whose sector is responsible for 13% of all co2 emissions in the union. i support the report on the european union heating and cooling strategy because i believe that the guidelines contained therein are of high quality and will contribute to reducing emissions and saving energy. i also believe that the implementation of these guidelines will increase the share of renewable energy in the building sector, which will contribute to reducing overall co2 emissions at eu level.
written. ‒ i supported this report because high energy efficiency, high-efficiency thermal insulation and the use of renewable energy sources are listed as priorities in the strategy. the aim is to facilitate decentralised energy production and thereby enable consumers and communities to become more involved in the energy market and to control their own energy consumption. given the differences in priorities between countries, i agree with the rapporteur that different measures are needed to achieve more efficient use of energy and significant reductions in carbon dioxide emissions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'strengthening the competitiveness of smes' article 9 (3) of the cpr, given the importance of the 23 million smes in the eu, which account for around 99% of all businesses, and which generate more than 100 million jobs or two thirds of private sector jobs, and where support for smes has been ensured under the cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period by doubling the support provided in 2007 to €140 billion in 2013. it is positive that the thematic objective 'strengthening the competitiveness of smes' with 13,9% is one of the thematic objectives for which the highest percentage of the total available financial resources is allocated and is key to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. it is expected that, if successfully implemented, the rule could support 801 500 businesses and create over 350 000 new jobs.
written. ‒ investing in the competitiveness of smes is one of the main objectives of the eu's cohesion policy 2014-2020, and strong smes are the backbone of society's development. as a member of the european parliament, i will always give my voice and accept proposals to facilitate the development and strengthening of smes, both through financial support and by easing the administrative burden, as they are the main drivers of the eu economy. small and medium-sized enterprises employ the majority of our citizens, provide jobs and thus play a significant role in the final overcoming and recovery from the economic crisis. we need to foster the competitiveness of all forms of smes, facilitate their access to finance and credit, simplify legislation, reduce red tape, facilitate access to information, encourage smes to export and internationalise. it is particularly important to emphasise the encouragement of 'green' enterprises that create 'green jobs' and thus contribute to sustainable development.
written. ‒ the 23 million smes in the eu, which account for around 99% of all businesses, provide more than 100 million jobs, or two thirds of private sector jobs, and continue to grow at twice the rate of larger companies, making a significant contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and high-quality jobs. this is despite the fact that only 13% of european smes are engaged in commercial activities and investments on world markets. small and medium-sized enterprises that would qualify for funding from the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), given that they operate in a competitive environment and have to deal with numerous constraints such as cash flow constraints, are heavily affected by complex and volatile rules and administrative burdens, in particular the fact that administrative costs are completely disproportionate to the financial resources allocated to them, the deadlines for processing applications for funding and the need to pay for the undertakings. in view of the above, i strongly support the adoption of this report.
written. ‒ the objective of boosting the competitiveness of smes is important for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy and the report gives us a first assessment of this key thematic objective and gives us the first indicators on this policy in general for the financial period 2014-2020. the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in long-term unemployment, youth unemployment and social inequality in many member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. i support the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the thematic objective 'strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises' as this objective promotes job creation and economic recovery. i come from croatia where there are a variety of micro-enterprises at local level, often active in traditional sectors, and there are more and more start-ups and fast-growing innovative enterprises, so it is necessary to simplify national and european legislation to make it easier for smes to access credit.
written. ‒ i voted for the eu strategy report for the alpine region as i support a european policy of multiracial development planning that recognises the common characteristics of individual geographical areas of the eu and overcomes the constraints of national borders, and as president of the adriatic euroregion i promoted the idea of creating an eu strategy for the adriatic region (today adriatic-ionian region). in this sense, i supported the creation of a macro-regional strategy to address specific developments in the alpine region. i would like to stress that a change of mindset is needed with regard to the existing constraints on the functioning of european macro-regions. the three ne policy needs to be redefined towards european macro-regions and to open up additional possibilities for financing development projects in the danube, baltic, adriatic-ionian and alpine regions. the way in which local and regional authorities can be more closely involved in the implementation of macro-regional strategies needs to be more clearly defined.
written. ‒ the alpine region has an exceptional and enormous potential for economic development and should be supported by programmes and strategies such as this one. the strategy covers five eu regions, two regions outside the eu and a large population that falls under the regions of the alpine regions. we need to invest in transportation systems, digital technology, renewable resources. it is also necessary to invest in the development of tourism throughout the year, not just one season that the local population can live on. it is necessary to emphasise that such tourism must be sustainable and environmentally sensitive, and that the planning and construction of such sites must not impair their original appearance. i also see in this proposal an opportunity for croatia, which has the potential in its mountain regions to encourage greater development of sustainable tourism and agriculture.
written. ‒ climate change in the alpine region is progressing faster than the global average, leading to more and more elementary disasters such as avalanches and floods. macro-regional strategies can contribute to the development of cross-border strategies and international projects to create networks of cooperation from which the whole region will benefit. the alpine macro-strategy will affect 80 million people living in 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are eu member states (austria, france, italy, germany and slovenia) and two of which are outside the eu (liechtenstein and switzerland). i welcome the fact that the european structural and investment funds (esifs) provide potentially important resources and a range of instruments and options for this strategy, and i stress the importance of the 'triple negative' principle, as macro-regions are frameworks for creating added value initiatives for cooperation and synergies between the different eu funding instruments. innovation and the application of new technologies in key areas of the economy, driven by smart specialisation strategies and funded from existing eu sources (e.g. erdf, esf, cosme, horizon 2020 or erasmus+) will help to create quality jobs in strategic sectors such as bioscience, bioeconomy, energy, eco-products, new materials or e-services. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's calls and support the adoption of this report.
written. ‒ the report is based on the principle that macro-regions are frameworks for cooperation and development of synergies between the different eu funding instruments and encourages the member states involved in eusalp (48 regions in seven countries) to coordinate their national and regional policies. the eusalp emphasises the importance of financial instruments, encourages innovation and new technologies in key areas of the economy, supports the diversity of tourism, stresses the importance of improving transport and energy links and the importance of protecting and enhancing biodiversity in the alpine region. i support this motion for a resolution on the eu strategy for the alpine region because i believe that the enormous potential of strategic spatial planning 'bottom-up' as opposed to traditional approaches should be exploited. i believe that the governance system to be applied to the strategies should be more clearly defined and that the role of eu and member state bodies should be limited to initiating strategies, subsequent coordination and monitoring, as regional and local authorities must be the true drivers of territorial and development policies at the lowest level.
written. ‒ i believe that the eu strategy for the alpine region is extremely useful because it encourages investment in rural areas, above all by ensuring effective access to healthcare that is equal for all areas in order to prevent the decline in the population of these areas. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the commission has also proposed that the aid be granted to the following undertakings: that is why i voted to adopt this report.
written. ‒ i support this report on the eu mutual fund for africa, whose main objective is to help foster stability in the regions and contribute to better migration management, i.e. to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu trust fund for africa: implications for development and humanitarian aid (2015/2341 ((ini)) as the main objective of the eu trust fund for africa is to contribute to stability and better management of migration and to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting economy, security and development. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the progress made in implementing this regulation. the eu contribution is €1.8 billion, with an equal amount of additional funds to be provided by eu member states and other donors. it is important that funds are channelled in a transparent way, that aid is effective and directed where it is needed most. i support the proposal to involve the european parliament more closely in monitoring and supervising the use of funds.
written. ‒ the european union cares for and supports the poorest parts of africa and, through the african mutual fund, seeks to reduce poverty and boost the development of african countries. unfortunately, sometimes the fund's resources are not allocated to the affected parts of africa but are used for border controls, migration, terrorism, etc. i expect much greater transparency and definition of what activities can be funded by the fund. the funds allocated to the fund for africa must be used primarily for this purpose, otherwise the already alarming situation will worsen. i call on the eu member states to work together and try to put more effort and effort into funding the fund so that as much as possible can be done to help africa in its fight against poverty. i also support the proposal that the european parliament should monitor and monitor the work of the fund and that parliament should be kept fully informed of the actions taken.
written. ‒ the main objective of the eu trust fund for africa, signed by the president of the european commission together with the 25 eu member states plus norway and switzerland and presented by the european and african partners at the valletta migration summit on 12 november 2015, is to contribute to stability in these regions and to better manage migration. whereas the european consensus on development remains the fundamental framework for eu development policy and the european consensus on humanitarian aid reaffirms the fundamental principles of humanitarian aid; whereas peace is recognised as crucial for development in the new 2030 agenda for sustainable development and in the new sustainable development goal 16 on peace and justice; whereas 1.5 billion people worldwide live in fragile conflict-affected regions and whereas the number of fragile states and ungoverned areas is increasing, leaving many exposed to poverty, lawlessness, rampant corruption and violence; as the idea behind the establishment of the mutual fund was to help the 23 countries in the three african regions where some of the most unstable african countries are located, which are affected by migration as countries of origin, transit or destination, sometimes in all three roles, and will benefit most from such a form of eu financial assistance, i support the adoption of this report and the speedy operationalization of this fund.
written. ‒ the main objective of the european union trust fund for africa is to contribute to stability and better management of migration. in other words, the objective of the fund is to address the causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration. africa is experiencing a very high rate of population growth that can lead to a surge in a young, working-age population and great economic benefits. to achieve this, young people need to be able to receive education and to acquire skills to fulfil their potential. i believe that more transparency is needed to reduce the misuse of development aid and to get it to those who need it most. i support the report on the european union mutual fund for africa because i believe that the guidelines set out therein are of high quality and that the implementation of those guidelines can lead to a strengthening of the role of ngos and international organisations as well as local authorities.
written. ‒ the key to greater participation of women in the labour market is quality institutions that would make it easier for them to reconcile private and professional obligations. i am thinking primarily of quality care for children in kindergartens and nurseries. also, a better network of care facilities needs to be developed, since women often bear the burden of caring for older family members. the second element that is important is the professional empowerment of women, through the fight against gendered occupational determination and the 'breaking of the glass ceiling'.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on creating favourable conditions in the labour market for achieving a balance between private and professional life, as i support the idea of european legislation being actively introduced on this issue as well. social and working conditions are changing rapidly, with consequences for lifestyles and quality of life. the reconciliation of private and professional life is an issue we encounter every day and affects family status, birth rate, quality of work and competitiveness of companies, general satisfaction, upbringing and conditions of education, social and economic status and numerous other facts that define the business and private environment and affect the quality of life now and in the near future. i agree with the fact that the reconciliation of work, private and family life should be guaranteed as a fundamental right for all people. it is necessary to introduce a framework to ensure that right within the social systems of the eu and the member states. models that achieve a work-life balance need to be promoted and all eu activities that have an impact on this issue should be included.
written. ‒ parents today face many problems in balancing family and work life, and women are exposed to various forms of discrimination at work from the very access to employment for planned future pregnancy, through the denial or reduction of their labour rights or maternity benefits, even to dismissal. the problem of working long hours and working without days off, weekends, holidays and public holidays is becoming more common, and it particularly affects shop workers. a non-working week in all eu member states would allow families to spend quality time together that is not guaranteed during the working week, especially in families where both spouses work or where the working parent is the sole provider of their children. the family and children must be at the heart of all work-life balance policies and it is unacceptable that these policies, under the guise of protecting workers' and women's rights, attempt to redefine the family as the fundamental unit of society. i could not therefore support this resolution because i believe that it does not deal with real problems but instead of proposing concrete solutions to create a balance between family and professional life, it tries to impose ideological issues and redefine the family based on marriage between a man and a woman.
‒ in 2015, in the 28 eu member states, the employment rate for men was 75,9% compared to the employment rate for women, which was 64,3%, despite the fact that women were more educated; whereas the number of women in the labour force is even lower when taking into account the full-time employment rate, given that the share of part-time employment among women is very high in some member states; whereas in 2013, men were paid for 47 hours of work per week and women for 34 hours; whereas, when hours of paid and unpaid work at home are added together, young women worked an average of 64 hours and young men 53. the losses of gdp per capita attributable to gender differences in the labour market are estimated to be up to 10% in europe. i consider this unacceptable and i agree with the calls that we must do everything in our power to reduce the gap as soon as possible and to eliminate it completely. in view of the above, i support the adoption of the report.
written. ‒ the birth rate in the european union has declined in recent decades and the union is facing unprecedented demographic challenges. uncertainty about work and difficult working conditions have a negative impact on family planning, so policies that support family life are needed. the plan presented by the commission is by no means a final solution, but it is a good starting point for encouraging positive demographic trends. work-life balance policies must be well-designed and should be seen as improving the working environment. good working conditions and social and business welfare must be provided. i support the report on creating favourable conditions in the labour market for achieving work-life balance because i believe that the guidelines set out therein are a good starting point for achieving a true work-life balance. i believe that the reconciliation of work and family life should be guaranteed as a fundamental right for all people.
written. ‒ i abstained on the report on creating favourable conditions in the labour market for achieving a balance between private and professional life. although i understand the importance of work-life balance, i could not support this report for several reasons. one of the main reasons is that it repeatedly violates the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. the report ignores the competence of the member states over certain areas. in addition, i am firmly of the view that families, i.e. workers, must be able to determine for themselves how they will reconcile private time with work, and this report proposes that women work more and imposes on fathers a minimum of compulsory and non-transferable paid leave. since everyone has the right to determine how much time they will spend at work and how much with their family, i did not support this report.
mr. president, in this great deal with turkey, and all that awaits us with turkey, we can definitely succeed only if we set things in principle at every moment. therefore, the approach put forward by the high commissioner seems to me to be principled. of course we have to condemn the coup, but of course we have to condemn everything that happened after the coup. nobody here can promise anything to anyone, let alone turkey's membership in the european union. we can only promise to abide by the principles and rules of entry into the european union, as every country that has become a member has had to do. i am one of those who believe that turkey can meet the democratic criteria and become a member of the european union, but it must also meet them.
written. considering the current situation in the eu, the clear conclusion is that we need a deep reform of the eu and stronger cooperation between member states. on the occasion of the open debate following the state of the union address by european commission president juncker, i wonder whether brexit could be the prelude to the eu's break-up. when i listen to and watch the speeches of some meps, it seems as if all this had already been seen 25 years ago when yugoslavia was disintegrating. in order to avoid such a scenario, the union needs to be reformed urgently to bring about greater cohesion and closer cooperation between member states. if that does not happen, the eu is more likely to fall apart than to succeed. personally, i don't want that kind of break-up scenario. quite the opposite! i want to talk about strengthening common european defence systems. i want to see, as at the recent meeting of the visegrad group, a discussion on better interconnection and cooperation between the member countries. there is a need to discuss a new confederal or federal model of how the eu should function. that's how i see the future of the union. in this sense, a decisive change in the way the european parliament and the other common institutions work and function politically is needed if the european project is to succeed.
written. there is still much to improve, but recent events have shown that defence and security are one of the weakest links in the fabric of common european policy. protecting the border and sharing data is key to detecting terrorists, which is why juncker's call for the interconnection of national defence and intelligence, and for digitalisation to strengthen the eu's capacity to fight terrorism and other threats, was indeed expected today and gained additional momentum. i support concrete figures, above all the increase of his investment fund by an additional 200 billion euros. i think this is a step in the right direction, but i always stress that the criteria for allocating funds from this fund should not only be the readiness of the projects, but also the general financial situation of the country and the impact of the economic crisis. we cannot allow most of the funds to end up in the most developed member states. the european commission is also ready to set aside money for the youth guarantee, for example, and has announced an ambitious investment plan for africa, because the problems affecting the eu are largely generated elsewhere, because they are not being solved there. if we have 70 years of peace in the european union, then it's something that certainly benefits not just individuals but also economies and the future that comes.
written. ‒ i support this agreement which will be politically, economically and culturally beneficial for both croatia and switzerland. the commission notes that the swiss authorities have not provided any evidence that the conditions for granting the residence permit are met. the eu shall ensure that the conditions for the granting of the eu guarantee are fulfilled.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons, relating to the participation of the republic of croatia as a contracting party following its accession to the european union (14381/2013 c8-0120/2016 2013/0321(nle)), as this addresses the issue of free movement of people, i.e. access to the labour market after croatia's accession to the eu where citizens of croatia should gain equal rights as citizens of other member states. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 1053/2012. the question remains how the new article of the federal constitution will be resolved, which restricts immigration on the basis of the 2014 referendum, and where international treaties must not be contrary to its provisions.
written. ‒ the eu is switzerland's most important partner in terms of political and economic importance. as part of its european policy, switzerland has always sought to strengthen its relations with the eu, as demonstrated by the fact that since 2000 20 major agreements and more than 120 bilateral agreements have been concluded and ratified by swiss citizens in seven referendums. on 4 march 2016, switzerland and the eu signed protocol iii extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. in view of the wider internal market, the key element of which is free movement, i consider that croatia and switzerland would benefit from signing protocol iii and have therefore supported this recommendation.
written. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the protocol extending the agreement on the free movement of persons between switzerland and the eu to croatia. the agreement between the european union and switzerland has been supplemented twice following the accession of new member states to the eu. this protocol iii was reached after the intervention of the eu and it finally ensured the equal status of citizens of croatia with all other citizens of the eu. the compromise reached ensures that switzerland can restrict the entry of croatian citizens into its labour market for a period of 7 years on the grounds that switzerland retains its interests, firstly to employ its citizens and thereby increase its national gdp, secondly not to create pressure on its employment system by entering a greater amount of labour from croatia and thirdly to fill it with croatian personnel if it does not have its own qualified staff. it may also extend those measures for a further three years. this protocol sets out the reasons why it is good for croatia to be a member of the european union. the european union protects the rights of its citizens, no matter where they come from. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. for these reasons, i have supported this recommendation of the european parliament.
written. ‒ the eu and its 28 member states are switzerland's most important partner, both in geographical and cultural terms, and especially in terms of their political and economic importance. the eu is also, by a number of agreements, more closely linked to switzerland than to any other country outside the european economic area. while switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner, just after the united states, china and russia, the eu is switzerland's largest trading partner. more than a million eu citizens live in switzerland, and 230,000 people cross the border for work every day. there are approximately 430 000 swiss nationals living in the eu. with the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia to the eu, the internal market has expanded to include almost 505 million people, making switzerland even more important as our partner. since switzerland refused to accede to the agreement on the european economic area in 1992, and since both parties are aware of the crucial importance of cooperation, a series of bilateral agreements (so-called bilateral agreements i) have been concluded. almost three years after joining, i support its adoption and agree with the rapporteur's recommendations. all member states must enjoy equal treatment and equal legal protection.
‒ the european union is switzerland's most important partner, both in geographical and cultural terms, and especially in terms of their political and economic importance. the agreement on the free movement of persons, signed as part of the bilateral agreement i, has lifted most of the restrictions on entry, residence and work for both parties, thus recognising the right of their nationals to enter, reside and work in the territory of the other signatory state. on 4 march 2016, switzerland and the european union signed protocol iii extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons, relating to the participation of the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement following its accession to the european union, and i support the consent to the conclusion of the protocol.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states and the swiss confederation on the free movement of persons, relating to the participation of the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement following its accession to the european union. i believe that the agreement on the free movement of persons, signed as part of the bilateral agreement i, has lifted most of the restrictions on both sides. i welcome the fact that it is clear that both croatia and switzerland will benefit from the signing of the current protocol iii from a political, economic and cultural point of view.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and consider it extremely important that the european parliament, represented by the chair of the empl committee, is invited to the summit on a regular basis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec as it gives its consent to the draft council decision. it is essential to respond in the right way to the labour market consequences of the migrant and refugee crisis and to the challenges posed by the increasing digitalisation of society. it is crucial to involve the so-called social partners who can directly contribute to the european economic and social strategy in this type of discussion and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the legal framework for the trilateral social summit for growth and employment (tss) needs to be updated in view of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty. the commission therefore presented a new council decision on which the new tsi should be based. in its report, parliament called for the introduction of the practice of the chair of the employment and social affairs committee (empl) also being invited to the tss committees. i think the practice is good. i therefore supported this recommendation of the council decision.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs. i consider the summit's mission to be positive and its objectives, which include the adoption of strategies for growth, high employment, social inclusion and protection, and the creation of conditions for quality education, training and protection of human health, can only be achieved through professional coordination and joint work by the council, the commission and the social partners, in accordance with the treaty and taking into account the powers of the union institutions and bodies. the exchange of knowledge and experience between the council, the commission and the social partners and their coordination on economic and social issues is a prerequisite and a basis for working towards their common objectives, which enable the social partners to contribute at european level, in the context of their social dialogues, to the various components of the union's strategy for growth and jobs. i also consider the proposed structure of organisation, representation and timetable and rhythm of the summit to be correct, as the objectives set can only be achieved by regular meetings and equal discussion between the authorised representatives of both sides (workers and employers) of all the delegations.
written. ‒ the purpose of the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs is to ensure, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the eu and taking into account the powers of the union institutions and bodies, the coherence of the commission, the council and the social partners. it shall enable the social partners at european level, in the context of social dialogue, to contribute to the development of the union strategy for growth and jobs. i supported the recommendation of the sógor representative to revise the 2003 council decision to ensure consistency with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty. in addition, it is necessary to revise the overall framework of the organisation and align its work with the europe 2020 strategy.
written. ‒ i agree with the draft council decision because, following the institutional change introduced by the treaty of lisbon establishing the office of president of the european council, the 2003 council decision establishing the tripartite social summit needs to be revised. since 2003, the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs has been a separate event from the european council meetings, largely fulfilling its objective of facilitating a high-level exchange of views between the commission, the eu presidency and the eu's social partners on the employment and social aspects of the lisbon strategy.
written. ‒ since 2003, the tripartite social summit for growth and employment has been a separate event from the european council meetings, largely fulfilling its objective of facilitating a high-level exchange of views between the commission, the eu presidency and the eu's social partners on employment and the social aspects of the european union. following the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon, the 2003 council decision establishing the tripartite social summit had to be revised. the european parliament shall give its consent, by a special legislative procedure, to the draft council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs and repealing decision 2003/174/ec. i support the recommendation on a draft council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec to make the decision as precise as possible and support the consent to the draft council decision.
written. ‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs is tasked with ensuring continuous coordination between the council, the commission and the social partners, as well as the coordination of their strategies for high-quality and sustainable employment. the pilot project will be implemented in close cooperation with the european commission and the european parliament, and will be supported by the european social fund. this is crucial for all member states, especially those where unemployment is one of the country's most pressing problems. that's why i voted for this resolution. in april 2014, the european parliament adopted this resolution, which included a request that the chair of the employment committee be invited to the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs. the next summit will be held in october this year. the resolution endorses the 2014 position of the european parliament and the general agreement of all the institutions is that the chair of the employment committee will be invited to the next summit.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down technical rules for inland waterway vessels, amending directive 2009/100/ec and repealing directive 2006/87/ec, because i believe that the negotiating teams of the european parliament and of the council have found a compromise in order to guarantee a high level of safety and efficiency in inland waterway transport. both sides strongly support the rationalisation of the use of resources to develop technical standards and adapt them to scientific and technological progress, using standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni (european committee for standardisation in inland navigation).
written. ‒ parliament supported, at first reading, the uniform application of common technical rules for inland waterway vessels in the eu in order to guarantee a high level of safety and efficiency in inland waterway transport. it also advocated the rapid adaptation of the standard to scientific and technological progress, taking into account standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni. cesni was established to facilitate the harmonisation of technical standards applied in the inland waterway sector in europe. it is therefore important that the applicable cesni technical standards laid down in this directive are updated to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency. the objective of the revision of directive 2006/87/ec is to enable the uniform application of common technical standards for inland waterway vessels in the european union, which will provide greater legal certainty and ensure that appropriate technical adaptations are introduced and high safety standards on waterways are maintained. the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu should be delegated to the commission and i therefore supported this recommendation.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive laying down technical rules for inland waterway vessels. in the procedure so far, the european parliament has called for greater internal safety to be ensured through technical rules. it was then emphasised that the existence of different legal frameworks and deadlines for decision-making procedures makes it difficult to maintain the equivalence of the navigation certificates in accordance with directive 2006/87/ec and the certificates issued under the revised convention on the navigation of the rhine. this new document ensures legal certainty for licence and certificate holders and removes the potential negative impact on the safety of navigation on inland waterways in the eu. the single legislative framework will also affect the easier application of the rules and issuing of certificates to croatian river boatmen, which is important for the further development and strengthening of river traffic on croatian rivers as well. now that this important legal step has been taken, it would be good to consider adapting the agreed standards to scientific and technological progress as soon as possible, taking into account standards developed by other international organizations.
written. ‒ parliament supported, at first reading, the uniform application of common technical rules for inland waterway vessels in the european union in order to guarantee a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. it also committed itself to the rapid adaptation of the standard to scientific and technological progress, taking into account standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni (european committee for the development of inland navigation standards) to be established under the auspices of the central commission for navigation on the rhine. parliament also requested a periodic triennial review of the directive in order to assess the mechanisms for cooperation with the international organisations concerned. in order to ensure consistency with other eu legislation, and in particular with directive 2014/94/eu on the establishment of alternative fuels infrastructure, parliament called for the adoption of delegated acts to introduce technical rules for liquefied natural gas (lng) -powered vessels, which is why i support the rapporteur's position to accept the council's position at first reading.
written. ‒ parliament supported, at first reading, the uniform application of common technical rules to inland waterway vessels in the eu with a view to ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency. it also advocated an urgent adaptation of the standard of scientific and technological progress, taking into account standards developed by international organisations. parliament also requested a periodic triennial review of the directive in order to assess the mechanisms for cooperation with the international organisations concerned. i supported the recommendation for second reading as the directive aims to establish a harmonised and consistent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels.
written. ‒ i accept the council's position at first reading without amendment. the council's position at first reading reflects the compromise agreed by the negotiating teams of the council and parliament. the negotiating text was approved by the committee on transport and tourism on 7 april 2016. i believe that the new directive will make a significant contribution to more efficient, dynamic and safe inland waterway transport within and outside the european union.
written. ‒ parliament supported, at first reading, the uniform application of common technical rules for inland waterway vessels in the european union to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation, and both institutions supported the rationalisation of the use of resources to develop technical standards and adapt them to scientific and technological progress using standards developed by international organisations. however, the council and parliament have different views on how to align the annexes to those technical standards. on 17 march 2016, the negotiating teams of parliament and the council reached an agreement on this matter. following legal and linguistic verification, the council adopted its position at first reading by confirming the agreement of 17 march 2016. i therefore support the recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down technical rules for inland waterway vessels, amending directive 2009/100/ec and repealing directive 2006/87/ec.
written. ‒ i supported the establishment of technical rules for inland waterway vessels because this regulation retains the right to adapt technical standards by means of delegated acts, which is very important in order to avoid the council having exclusive decision-making power, i.e. to avoid the european parliament being co-legislated. i agree with the need to adapt the technical rules urgently to the standards of scientific and technological progress and i believe that a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation can be achieved by the uniform application of common technical rules for inland waterway vessels in the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and a sadc epa state, of the other part, as it certainly has the potential to bring about radical positive change, to contribute to sustainable economic growth and to deepen interregional trade and integration. the seven sadc countries (the eu-south africa development community economic partnership agreement) have started negotiations on an economic partnership agreement: angola, botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and south africa, and it is these countries that need to orient their domestic policies towards trade and development and implement structural reforms. while this agreement contains many development measures, it also contains safeguards that enable the said partner countries to protect sensitive sectors from european competitors, such as domestic industry, agricultural markets and food security.
written. ‒ the eu-sadc economic partnership is a major step forward in supporting international trade relations, the regional integration of african countries and the gradual integration of acp countries into the world economy, and the eu is one of the largest trading partners of the sadc sgp group. the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the sadc epa states will not only allow unrestricted access of their products to the eu market, but will also act as a development instrument. the conclusion of the agreement will contribute to sustainable development and poverty eradication, enhance the trade policy capacity of the sadc epa states and support favourable conditions for increased investment. one of the key objectives of the agreement is to strengthen the eu-usdc relationship on the basis of solidarity and mutual interest. despite its focus on trade in goods, development cooperation and trade, the agreement opens up new opportunities for negotiations on further investment, services, public procurement, intellectual property and sustainable development provisions. i supported this agreement because i believe it represents a significant step forward in relations with the countries of the african continent and contributes to the sustainable development of the economies of african countries.
written. ‒ i support the proposal of the committee on international trade for an economic partnership between the eu member states and the southern african development community (sadc). the importance of cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries is of paramount importance, especially as the eu does not own the raw materials and products that these countries own, but are needed as resources that are important for the production of some products in the eu. we also open up the possibility for acp countries to grow and develop by granting them various benefits for importing their products into the eu. this will reduce unemployment and poverty in acp countries and create opportunities for progress. what i would like to draw attention to is that the sadc members should introduce stronger controls and product inspections on imports of products, especially because of the xylelle fastidiosis bacteria in agriculture that came from these countries and destroyed olive groves in italy and france and caused enormous damage, but also created fears that it would spread to other eu member states.
written. ‒ the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the sadc epa states currently only covers provisions on trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development. further negotiations on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and improved sustainable development provisions are encouraged. the agreement and further cooperation between member states and sadc epa states has the potential to bring about positive change, contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepen interregional trade and integration, and i therefore supported the recommendation.
written. ‒ i accept this recommendation because i consider the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and the sadc epa state, on the other hand, to be of great importance as it has the potential to contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepening interregional trade. the eu-sadc agreement is based on the southern african customs union, the oldest in the world. the sadc countries must direct their domestic policies towards trade and development. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international covenant on civil and political rights. the sadc epa states are a diverse group, and thus include the least developed countries and middle-income countries. it is important to promote deep business links to support the african private sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreement. the gsp enhances regional integration in various ways through the possibilities it provides in terms of rules of origin and regional cumulation. it is also important to enhance regional trade by encouraging customs cooperation and the implementation of reforms, in particular by harmonising procedures and regulations in the sadc region to facilitate transit.
‒ the sadc (south african development agency) is made up of 15 countries, seven of which (angola, botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and south africa) have started negotiations on an economic partnership agreement with the european union. the eu-sadc agreement is based on the southern african customs union (sacu), which is the oldest customs union in the world. this regional trade agreement is development-oriented and currently includes provisions on trade, development cooperation and sustainable development. however, it leaves room for negotiation on further provisions on services, investments, intellectual property and public procurement. i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an economic partnership between the european union and the sadc states as i believe that this agreement will lead to greater regional integration, contribute to sustainable economic growth and increase trade and investment.
written. ‒ the economic partnership agreements (epas), or the trade and development partnerships between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the european union, aim to support trade, regional integration and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy, while promoting their sustainable development, which is why i supported this report. the economic partnership agreement will provide the blmns countries with a single access regime, which implies duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market. the sadc epa has many developmental aspects. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the commitments made by the acp states in the framework of the wto agreement on trade in services (trade and investment) and the wto agreement on trade in services (trade and investment) and will continue to monitor the implementation of the commitments made by the acp states in the framework of the wto agreement on trade in services (trade and investment) and the wto agreement on trade in services (trade and investment) in the framework of the wto agreement on trade in services (trade and investment) and the wto agreement on trade in services (trade and investment) in the framework of the wto agreement on trade in services (trade and investment agreement). the commission should be able to provide the necessary information to the parties in order to ensure that the implementation of the epa is carried out in a timely manner. it is also very important to underline that this agreement can be a driver of further regional integration and opens the door to some future provisions on services, investments, intellectual property, public procurement and improved provisions on sustainable development.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the agreement concluded between the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives in the european union (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and the association of national organisations of fisheries enterprises (europêche) of 21 may 2012, as amended on 8 may 2013, on the implementation of the international labour organisation convention on labour in fisheries of 2007, as i believe that the eu and the member states should take the lead in promoting decent wages and working conditions in fisheries, given that workers in this sector need special labour protection. compared to other sectors, fisheries workers work in a hazardous working environment, where accidents with a fatal outcome are not uncommon and occupational diseases are a risk and occur. furthermore, there is a blurred demarcation between working time, rest and leisure and the impact of fatigue on health and safety, a high incidence of informal and atypical working relationships and a pay system. social dialogue at european level is certainly needed to improve this sector and its working conditions.
written. ‒ this resolution emphasises that workers in the fisheries sector need special protection in view of the specific characteristics of work on fishing vessels, the high rate of fatal accidents and the risk of occupational diseases. to date, only eight member states have ratified the international labour organisation's convention no 188 on work in fishing, which covers the main issues relating to the guarantee of decent working and living conditions on board. this agreement shall apply to all fishermen employed on board fishing vessels registered in or flying the flag of one of the member states of the eu and engaged in commercial fishing. as the inclusion of the social partners' agreement on the international labour organisation's work in fishing convention in eu legislation will strengthen the european union's position in promoting implementation in partner countries, thereby contributing to a fair and level playing field for the world fisheries sector, i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution taking note of and welcoming the commission proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the agreement between the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives in the european union (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and the association of national fisheries organisation organisations (europêche) on the implementation of the 2007 international labour organisation convention on work in fishing. this agreement sets out only minimum requirements relating to wages, social protection and social security, but allows member states and/or social partners to adopt additional measures which are more favourable to workers on board fishing vessels and to self-employed fishermen. the data indicate that fishermen need special protection in view of the specific working conditions. fishing vessels are a hazardous working environment with a high rate of fatal accidents and the risk and occurrence of occupational diseases compared to other sectors. attention should be paid to further delineating the boundaries between working time, rest and leisure of employees, due to the impact of fatigue on health and safety, which also occurs in part due to insufficient rest. the provisions of the agreement should be further developed by agreement of all stakeholders in order to guarantee adequate and decent income for workers and their families.
written. ‒ workers in the fisheries sector need special protection, taking into account, inter alia, the specific characteristics of work on board fishing vessels, the high rate of accidents with or without fatalities and the risk and occurrence of occupational diseases, compared to other sectors, the hazardous working environment, the unclear distinction between working time, rest and leisure time and the impact of fatigue on health and safety, partly also due to insufficient rest, the high frequency of informal and atypical working relationships and the pay systems, including those based on the shares of crew members. since only eight countries have so far ratified ilo convention no 188 on work in fishing and, despite the council decision authorising eu member states to ratify ilo convention no 188 on work in fishing, only two, france and estonia, have done so, i support the call on the council to adopt the directive as a matter of urgency.
written. ‒ i accept the motion for a resolution as workers in the fisheries sector need special protection in view of the specific characteristics of work on fishing vessels, the high rate of accidents and the risk and occurrence of occupational diseases. there should be a clear distinction between working time, rest and leisure time and sufficient rest periods should be ensured so that the fatigue of workers does not affect their health and safety. the eu and its member states must take the lead in promoting decent wages and working conditions in fisheries and engage in the fight against the worst forms of exploitation of fishermen, such as forced labour, trafficking in human beings and child labour.
written. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union allows the social partners to enter into a dialogue at union level which can lead to contractual relations. workers in the fisheries sector need special protection because of the special working conditions on board fishing vessels. fishermen are exposed to a high rate of fatal accidents and the risk of occupational diseases. the distinction between working time, rest and leisure time, and the impact of fatigue on health and safety, is also unclear. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe it allows member states to adopt measures which benefit workers in the fisheries sector. i also believe that the provisions relating to pay, social protection and security must continue to evolve in order to guarantee a decent income for workers and their families.
written. - i support this statement on the recent events in poland. the political situation in poland is worrying, and in particular the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal, and the non-publication of judgments handed down by the constitutional tribunal, as well as the initiative to introduce a complete ban on abortion, new amendments to the law on public media, the law on the police, the law on the office of the prosecutor general and the law on criminal procedure are controversial.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following the statements by the council and the commission under rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure on the recent events in poland and their impact on the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (2016/2774 ((rsp)) as the situation in poland has not improved since the recent debate in the spring of this year. the problem is that there are a number of legislative proposals that are not in line with some of the eu's core values and principles. these are the law on public media, the law on police, the law on criminal procedure, the law on public administration, the law on counter-terrorism and other measures that interfere with the independence of the media, the impartiality of the public administration, the right to privacy, the right to a fair trial, the right to freedom of expression and other aspects of restricting human rights. the situation surrounding the constitutional tribunal is still unresolved and is particularly dangerous for the rule of law.
‒ the european union operates on the basis of the presumption of mutual trust that member states respect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as enshrined in the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights. the recent developments in poland, in particular the dispute over the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal and the non-publication of the judgments of the constitutional tribunal, have raised concerns regarding respect for the rule of law. the council of europe commissioner for human rights, in his report following his visit to poland, concluded that the recently adopted amendments to the code of criminal procedure and the law on the public prosecutor's office threaten the right to a fair trial in criminal proceedings, the presumption of innocence and the right of defence. this resolution calls on the polish government to cooperate with the commission on the basis of the principle of sincere cooperation, as stated in the treaty, and to find a compromise to resolve the current constitutional crisis, which is why i supported the proposal for this resolution.
written. ‒ i do not consider that human rights, democracy and the rule of law are threatened in poland. it is true that the polish government has made some changes, but the information put out in the international media is not based on reliable data and does not reflect the reality. as regards chapters 3, 4 and 5 on the status of fundamental civil rights - freedom of assembly, freedom of speech and freedom of the media, there were no significant legislative changes in this regard, as the exercise of freedom of assembly did not change before and after the last parliamentary elections. the largest polish association of journalists supported the changes to the media law as they were essential and enabled media pluralism. a comparative analysis shows that the legal changes introduced in this area are similar to the solutions existing in western european countries such as italy, spain or france. when it comes to women's rights and reproductive health, poland has excellent laws, and the data shows that the maternal mortality rate in poland is among the lowest in the world, and that's because of good regulatory legislation. there are problems with the functioning of the constitutional tribunal, but poland is able to solve them on its own without the interference of external factors. poland is an independent state, its government is elected by the people in democratic elections, it has its own legitimacy and legitimacy and we have to respect that.
‒ the european parliament recalls that the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the sharing of power and the independence of the judiciary are at the heart of a democratic system and must not be compromised. the recent developments in poland, such as the dispute over the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal and the non-publication of judgments of the constitutional tribunal, raise concerns regarding respect for the rule of law. the new law on public administration in poland is a compromise of the principle of efficient, impartial and professional public administration, which is a hallmark of democratic governance. i support the motion for a resolution on the recent events in poland because i believe it is important to establish full respect for common european values as well as for fundamental rights. i believe that poland should be given all the help it can get in finding solutions to strengthen the rule of law.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu-tunisia relations in the current regional context (2015/2273 ((ini)) as i support the efforts, measures and activities that the eu is undertaking towards tunisia with the aim of helping its weak economy and fragile democratic structure. the union's financial contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance should be limited to the amount necessary to cover the expenditure incurred by tunisia in the years preceding the financial year.
written. ‒ the process of consolidating the democratic process in tunisia is one of the key factors for establishing stability in the region as a whole and thus for the security of europe. the eu's external assistance will be directed to tunisia's neighbours, including through the eu's external assistance programmes. the eu and tunisia have agreed to cooperate in the implementation of the eu-tunisia association agreement, which is a key element of the eu-tunisia association agreement. in view of the imminent instability in libya, tunisia needs strong support. the eu-tunisia association agreement provides for the establishment of a european union stabilisation and association council, which is to be chaired by the president of the european commission. the objective of strengthening democracy and stability in the current unstable regional context can also be achieved by providing support to the assembly of people's representatives. the eu-tunisia mobility partnership signed in march 2014, the new visa policy and the conclusion of readmission agreements will enhance existing cooperation between the eu and tunisia. in line with the foregoing, i support this report because i believe that deepening relations with tunisia will greatly contribute to the advancement of democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law and all other issues of common interest.
‒ tunisia is one of the most developed countries in north africa, which, thanks to its political and economic achievements, can serve as an example for other countries in the same region. the eu has long enjoyed good relations with tunisia, and this resolution only reaffirms this. the resolution adopts many positions that point to a trend towards improving relations with tunisia and proposes an increase in financial assistance in order to implement as soon as possible the reforms planned for the period 2016-2020. since many lebanese have fled to tunisia to escape the chaos in their country, i support the proposal to mobilise funds urgently for tunisia in order to stabilise the political situation as soon as possible, which is ultimately a condition for the implementation of reforms. i also welcome the proposal to change some laws that do not respect human dignity, that is, are aimed at discrimination.
written. ‒ i supported the castaldo report because tunisia is a successful example of a peaceful democratic transition that is important for the stability of the whole region and the security of europe. the tunisian economy, its growth and the further development of democracy are heavily dependent on foreign investment, tourism and exports of products to the eu. the eu and the member states are therefore encouraged to mobilise and better coordinate resources to provide financial assistance to tunisia. the council is invited to accelerate the implementation of the assistance programme to tunisia with an emphasis on security assistance for the purpose of protecting tourist infrastructure and combating terrorist threats. welcomes the enhanced political dialogue between the eu and tunisia and stresses the importance of the protection of human rights.
written. ‒ i support the report on eu-tunisia relations in the current regional context, because i consider tunisia to be one of the priority countries linked to the european neighbourhood policy. tunisia is a country where tourism is a key sector for the economy, and it is today hard hit by various circumstances, the most prominent of which is terrorism. tunisia has suffered a number of terrorist attacks and is an important partner of the european union in the fight against terrorism. tunisia faces security risks and is in a difficult socio-economic situation stemming mainly from libya. it is necessary to develop good partnerships that take into account the populations on both sides of the mediterranean. strong support from the european union is needed to ensure stability and deepen democracy in an already unstable region. the tunisian economy depends on foreign investment and exports of products to the eu, and it can only grow with the further development of democracy. the eu and tunisia need to continue to cooperate in order to succeed in promoting some of the common interests, namely trade, investment, tourism, culture and security.
written. ‒ tunisia is considered one of the priority countries under the european neighbourhood policy and is also considered in the arab world as a successful example of peaceful and democratic transition, which is crucial for the stability of the entire region and thus for the security of europe. the commission has also received comments from the tunisian authorities, which have not provided any information on the implementation of the measures. a key sector of tunisia's economy is tourism, which has been badly affected by neighbourhood circumstances and terrorist attacks. tunisia remains an important partner of the european union in the fight against terrorism, but it is worrying that daesh is recruiting many young tunisians because of the economic stagnation that attracts young people to extremist organizations. i support the report on eu-tunisia relations because i believe that it sets out the guidelines well and that it is a good guide for political and institutional reforms as well as economic and social development.
written. ‒ i supported the report on eu-tunisia relations in the current regional context, as the tunisian economy depends on foreign investment, tourism and exports of products to the eu. in view of the strategic development plan for tunisia for the period 2016-2020 and as tunisia is one of the priority countries under the neighbourhood policy, i express my support for the democratisation process and stress the need for social and economic reforms and the initiative for the strategic development plan for tunisia. the eu and tunisia should continue to cooperate in the fight against terrorism and should continue to support the efforts of the tunisian authorities to combat illegal immigration. reducing unemployment, especially among young people with a university degree, and launching fundamental reforms to boost growth and quality employment are needed.
written. ‒ i support this report on social dumping in the eu. the phenomenon of social dumping arises from the practice of unfair economic and social competition and represents a 'race to the bottom' in relation to social conditions in europe, undermining the high level of social protection in the eu. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to obtain a fair price for the product concerned. this report shows our awareness of the seriousness of the social dumping problem and is an expression of our commitment to combating social dumping and to ensure that all workers in europe enjoy a high level of social protection and rights.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on social dumping in the european union because i believe that it is necessary to protect competitiveness in europe and to allow companies to compete on prices throughout the union and to facilitate the free movement of workers from one member state to another. the disproportionate development of the internal market and social protection systems leads to unfair competition in the internal market and thus to the weakening of workers' rights and the exploitation of workers. unfair economic and social competition also has political effects that undermine the idea of european unity. i therefore believe that concrete measures must be taken to achieve social convergence within the european union.
written. ‒ the issue of undeclared work and bogus self-employment is a major challenge for the harmonisation of social rights within the eu. the lack of coordination within the member states' markets can have a negative impact on social security systems and undermine adherence to the principle of the internal market. the lack of effectiveness and coherence of social provisions encourages member states to take unilateral decisions related to social policy. the consequences of undeclared work and false employment include distortions of competition and worker protection, an increase in precarious employment and an overall quality of job performance. they cause long-term damage to the social security systems of the member states and should therefore be addressed. the commission has also identified a number of other areas where the commission could be more effective in tackling the problem of unemployment. the union, in order to maintain freedom of movement within the internal market, must devote itself to addressing this problem. the eu should strengthen the principles of fair competition within social policy and put emphasis on promoting a social market economy. the increasing competition between employers encourages them to optimise costs and therefore causes violations of the applicable social standards in the member states. job-avoidance, false self-employment and other violations of existing justice systems must be addressed, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the proposal of the committee on employment and social affairs on social dumping in eu countries. market developments and competition affecting employers lead to lower prices for products and services. to survive and cover costs, employers are forced to reduce the cost of labor to employees, and that cannot be allowed. all eu citizens have an important principle, the right to equal pay and social protection. we must not allow the undervaluation of the workforce because human capital is an irreplaceable resource and worth fighting against this merciless market. i am particularly in favour of a non-working sunday in all eu member states, respect for working time and rest. i don't support the exploitation of the workforce, so special attention should be paid to those sectors where it is most pronounced, such as road, air and sea transport. more controls and inspections are needed to crack down on any unfair and disloyal practices in relation to workers' rights. i call on all member states to cooperate on this matter.
written. ‒ increased competition between companies usually results in lower labour costs. this violates workers' rights and reduces the financial resources needed to provide social protection. i therefore supported the report by mr balas, as it calls for equal conditions of work and competition and for a stronger fight against the violation of workers' social rights.
written. ‒ i accept the report on social dumping in the european union because i believe that it undermines one of the main principles of eu policy, namely social cohesion. there is a need for permanent and permanent wage harmonization and guaranteed social protection for all workers. undeclared work and bogus self-employment can cause distortions of competition that lead to long-term damage to social security systems. working conditions that protect physical and mental health are a fundamental right of all workers. it is important to mention that there is still a gender pay gap which is unacceptable. social dumping can only further deepen the gender pay gap and leave older women at greater risk of poverty. social dumping, whether fiscal or environmental, is contrary to european values. i also believe that social dumping is a threat to the protection of the rights of eu citizens, and that the protection of the rights and free movement of persons is central to the european project itself.
written. ‒ undeclared work and bogus self-employment distort competition, damaging the social security system, but contributing to the growth of precarious employment and undermining the level of protection of workers. increasing employment among women is a key objective of the european union in the field of social dumping. this also includes improving the position of women in the labour market and eliminating gender gaps. it is also important to mention the gender pay gap that is still present, which ultimately leads to the pension gap. trafficking in human beings, especially women, also exists between eu countries and is often linked to a fake employment contract. i support the report on social dumping because i believe that the guidelines contained therein are of high quality and will allow for stronger control and coordination by member states and address regulatory gaps for the enforcement of national and european labour and social law.
written. ‒ this report addresses a number of issues in the exercise of workers' rights, such as the role of labour inspection, the need for equal pay for equal work in the same place, equal conditions in the same workplace or the observance of working hours. like my colleagues in the ecr group, i will always support efforts to ensure that all workers are maximally protected and that everyone has the right to fair working conditions, but i cannot support something that undermines the competence of the member states. this is particularly important in terms of wage setting, social security, the tax system and specific labour market reform. the ecr shadow rapporteur worked constructively in negotiations, in particular with the epp and alde shadow rapporteurs, to bring this report as close as possible to the ecr's views. unfortunately, the ecr's proposals have not been approved by the s&d rapporteur, which is why i will not support this report on social dumping in the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 30 june 2016 supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the parliament and of the council on key information documents for packaged retail investment products and investment insurance products by laying down regulatory technical standards with regard to the presentation, content, review and revision of key information documents and the conditions for fulfilling the requirements for the submission of those documents, as it objects to the commission delegated regulation and asks the commission to submit a new delegated act. i believe that there is a need to promote more equality of market conditions and that it is necessary to clarify how products with more options are treated. in addition, the delegated act proposed by the commission contains certain shortcomings concerning the methodology for calculating the future performance situation and, consequently, certain requirements of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 are not fulfilled.
written. ‒ information on investment products for consumers must be comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market, and the removal of credit risk from the calculation of the risk categorisation of insurance products can be misleading to investors. it is necessary to clarify the treatment of multiple-option products, in particular with regard to the explicit exemption granted to ucits funds under regulation (eu) no 1286/2014. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the calculation of the future performance scenarios for the period from 1 january 2017 to 31 december 2018. the delegated regulation does not contain detailed guidance on the comprehension warning, which poses a serious risk of inconsistent application of that element in key information documents across the single market. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the priips and the priips' compliance with the requirements of this regulation.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament's objection to the commission delegated regulation on key information documents for packaged retail investment products and investment insurance products (priips) by laying down regulatory technical standards relating to the presentation, content, review and revision of key information documents and the conditions for fulfilling the requirements for the delivery of those documents. the commission considers that the commission's approach to the question of whether the information provided by the commission is sufficient to justify the imposition of measures is not in line with the principles of the altmark judgment. the provision of clear, comparable and understandable information on priips is particularly important for retail investors and the removal of, for example, credit risk from the calculation of the risk categorisation of insurance products could mislead them. the commission has also identified weaknesses in the methodology for calculating the future success scenarios. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the authorisation of priips to be marketed in the union. i support the objection and ask the commission to put forward a proposal that will protect the interest of eu citizens.
written. ‒ i agree with the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 30 june 2016 supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, as i consider that it needs further clarification in order to be adopted. if this delegated regulation remains unchanged, there is a risk that retail investors would be left without sufficient information and would be misled. the delegated regulation does not contain a 'risk warning' and therefore presents a serious risk to many investors. information must be equally accessible to all in order to provide consumers with a level playing field in the financial market.
‒ the european parliament considers that information on investment products intended for consumers must be comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market. the commission delegated regulation does not contain detailed guidance on the 'understanding notice', so there is a risk of inconsistent application in key information documents in the single market. the parliament therefore considers that there is a need for further standardisation of the use of the 'understanding notice'. i support the objection to the commission delegated regulation because i consider that the rules laid down in the delegated regulation would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of the legislative act if they remain unchanged. the aim of the act is to provide clear, comparable and understandable information on priips that will not mislead retail investors.
written. ‒ i supported the objection to the adoption of the commission delegated regulation on key information documents for packaged retail investment products and investment insurance products (priips) by laying down regulatory technical standards relating to the presentation, content, review and revision of key information documents and the conditions for fulfilling the requirements for the delivery of those documents. i consider that the adoption of this commission delegated regulation should be postponed as it does not provide legal certainty and a harmonised approach. although the economic and monetary policy committee of the european parliament has expressed a clear and reasoned view that the adoption of this regulation should be postponed, the commission has not taken it into account. i therefore hope that, after the adoption of this objection and the possible reaction of the member states through the council, the commission will refrain from amending the regulation.
madam president, what kind of industrial policy do we have? do we really have an industrial model? do we really have the strategy of reindustrialising europe that we're talking about today? and what kind of industry do we want? i think a lot of things have been left out today. i didn't hear much of what i expected to hear. however, i will be concrete because when we react to alst, caterpillar, it's okay, we have to react, we have to express solidarity with those citizens who will be affected, but let's think about what we will do tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, so that it is not too late for an industry that is almost destroyed in europe, and it is a great industry. shipbuilding, which can bring together a lot of what's made in europe, put it on a ship, and then it becomes a real european product. let's not destroy the shipyard. a concrete example, a concrete possibility of the industrialisation or reindustrialisation of europe.
mr. president, illegal immigration is one of the most pressing issues we need to address urgently. tolerating illegal migration and accepting that it is somehow inevitable fully ensures legal migration channels and all those valuable people from around the world who want to come legally, to study or to work in the european union. a good number of them never manage to find their way to europe through the jungle of documents, forms and procedures, but that's why we take care of people who show up at our doorstep without any documents. the new document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals is a step in the right direction as it reduces the administrative burden on the competent authorities of the member states and provides them with certain security guarantees. but more effective return of those who are illegally on our soil will not produce the expected results unless we urgently reduce the influx of illegal migrants.
mr president, solidarity among the member states is the basis for solving this overwhelming problem we face, but solidarity is not there. we have to say it here. italy and greece carry a huge burden. without the help of all the countries of the european union, we will not solve the problem. but i don't see us getting rid of him that fast. we must stand financially and politically and morally and in every other way behind italy, behind greece, behind all those people who are poor and miserable and who are on the greek islands or somewhere in italy. but we are talking about consequences, and we should be talking about cause, about wars, about syria and the war in syria. today, the united states and russia are negotiating some new peace. and where is mrs. mogherini? today mr juncker said very clearly that mrs mogherini must also be at the negotiating table, because the consequences of the war are felt by europe, not by russia or the united states.
mr president, combating unemployment is a particularly important part of the overall economic efforts of the member states, because there is no more important objective than to ensure that all members of the community who are able and willing to work can survive from their work and feed their families. to achieve higher employment rates, we need to better align the education system with the needs of the labour market and encourage creativity and entrepreneurship in children and young people from the earliest days. in countries like croatia, many people with skills, knowledge and ideas are discouraged from entering entrepreneurial ventures because of high taxes and administrative burdens, and this is something that urgently needs to change. i regret that this report also enters the private sphere of citizens and shows a desire to regulate the distribution of family responsibilities. politics should not interfere with family relationships, and i will never support that.
mr. president, a decent income is the basic prerequisite for a decent life. employment can be key in finding a way out of poverty, but it is important to have a minimum income sufficient to help people meet basic needs. the latest figures show that one in five croatian citizens is poor, while one in three lives at risk of poverty. the net minimum wage in croatia is eur 337 which is not enough for a decent life. the most vulnerable group are women who work in shops, working for three weeks straight and without a day off a week. almost 93 000 citizens of the republic of croatia receive a pension of less than eur 70, making it almost impossible to survive. the poverty line in croatia is eur 270 and more than 555 000 pensioners in croatia have a pension below the poverty line and live on the edge of existence. i therefore believe it is necessary for the commission to encourage member states to introduce a national minimum pension and a minimum income that will protect citizens from poverty.
written. - as much as it may seem that these two things are inseparable, the appointment of julian king as commissioner should be separated from brexit. the united kingdom is entitled to a commissioner regardless of the outcome of the referendum, as long as it does not formally leave the eu. king did a proper hearing, and that's why i voted for it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, given the need to stabilise the current migration crisis and to reduce the burden on member states. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the return of the third-country national on the situation of the third-country national concerned. therefore, the format of the documents must be harmonised, thereby reducing costs, red tape and waiting times. the commission should also be able to provide information to the member states on the implementation of the schengen acquis, in particular on the application of the schengen acquis to third countries.
written. ‒ the return of illegal third-country nationals is one of the problematic areas of intra-eu migration management. the return system is not yet effective, as demonstrated by the fact that in 2014 only 40% of the total number of return decisions taken by member states were executed. the return of irregular migrants frees up space for the reception and protection of those who really need it, which is particularly important in the current migration crisis. the absence of valid travel documents is one of the main obstacles to the successful return of irregular migrants and as such should be addressed. higher technical and security standards are needed to ensure that european travel documents are considered valid and to avoid the problem of forgery of documents. the harmonisation of travel document formats and the entry into systems such as eurodac and the schengen information system also enhance the effectiveness of european migration management. i supported this report because i believe it solves the problem of returning illegal migrants and makes it easier to manage the current migration crisis. improving the standard of the european travel document will contribute to achieving the objectives of the european agenda on migration, increase the efficiency of the return system for migrants and provide asylum to those who really need it.
written. ‒ the migration crisis affecting europe is creating social, regulatory and economic problems. the social adjustment of migrants within the eu is difficult. citizens are concerned about their safety and fear, especially of migrants who are in the eu illegally. the regulatory aspect concerns the problem of accepting current travel documents for returning illegally staying eu citizens to third countries and the need to improve the system of returning documents and the system of identification of migrants, which again requires certain financial resources that create a problem in economic terms. it is important for europe and for eu citizens to tackle the migration problem and to make it a priority, because it affects the whole european system. we must prove to the citizens of europe that we are fighting for their safety and ensure higher technical and safety standards. the instruments of implementation must not be allowed to delay and bring about more problems than europe has now.
written. ‒ i support this report as it is necessary to find a legal, safe and dignified way for some third-country nationals who are staying illegally in the union territory and do not have valid travel documents to return to their countries of origin and to ensure their readmission. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. given that many third countries are reluctant to recognise return documents issued in member states due to their poor quality, it is necessary for the eu to establish a more secure and harmonised european travel document and to introduce more technical standards to protect against forgery and counterfeiting, thus reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden on member states' and third countries' administrations.
written. ‒ the return of persons who do not qualify for international protection in the eu must be a priority for the european union, given that the current rate of return of non-qualified asylum seekers is insufficient to preserve the integrity of the eu asylum system, the cooperation of eu member states with third countries and the confidence of eu citizens. to that end, the existing european union standard travel document needs to be substantially amended in terms of format and implementation in order to improve its recognition in third countries and to make it more effective. it is important, inter alia, to harmonise the format of the travel document of the member states, to protect it against counterfeiting and to ensure the exchange of information between member states in relation to the issuance of travel documents. i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
written. ‒ i support this report on the eu mutual fund for africa, whose main objective is to help foster stability in the regions and contribute to better migration management, i.e. to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading (com ((2015) 0583 c8-0375/2015 2015/0268 cod)) as this regulation is an important step towards the completion of the capital markets union and aims to facilitate economic operators' access to diverse sources of capital funding from across the european union in an equal manner. a harmonised framework is needed to ensure the uniformity of the information required for the offer of securities to the public. this regulates the market, facilitates the procedure especially for smaller companies, protects investors and reduces the cost of raising capital for companies. i support activating the non-equity securities market for small investors.
written. ‒ this proposal is key to the process of further integrating the capital markets of the eu member states. in order to ensure growth and job creation, it is necessary to allow companies to access more diverse sources of capital and to ensure the efficient functioning of the market. the union should provide investors and savers with further options to use their financial resources more efficiently in order to stimulate economic growth. the prospectus published at the time of an offer of securities to the public or of an admission to trading is an important element in the promotion of the single market for capital, as it provides for investor protection. the issuing and aligning of the publication of a prospectus removes the asymmetry in the availability of data between them and the issuer. the information provided also enables investors to make an informed investment decision. the principles and rules laid down in directive 2003/71/ec of the european parliament and of the council need to be amended in the light of the legislative and market developments since its adoption. i supported the proposal for a regulation and the proposed reforms because they contain amendments that are important for further building the capital markets union and reduce unnecessary administrative barriers.
written. ‒ i supported this legislative resolution because i believe that accurate and complete information for all stakeholders is the key to confidence in the securities market. securities shall be offered to the public in the union only after prior publication of the prospectus, in accordance with the regulation. the prospectus shall be published in the official journal of the european union and shall be made available to the public. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the publication of the prospectus. the public offer submitted under the exemption must contain a clear indication that the public offer is not of a cross-border nature. the eu growth prospectus should be a standardised document that should include key information on the issuer, securities and offer. the commission should facilitate access to capital markets for smes and therefore ensure investor confidence to invest in such companies by reducing costs and burdens for smes. the prospectus shall also include risks arising from the level of subordination of the security and the impact on the expected size or timing of payments to holders of securities in bankruptcy, or any other similar proceeding, including, where relevant, the insolvency of the credit institution.
written. ‒ the proposal for a regulation is a key step towards completing the capital markets union. the aim of the capital markets union is to help companies to access sources of capital more easily, to ensure that markets function more efficiently and to offer investors and savers additional opportunities to use funds. the reform of the prospectus should ensure a reduction in the fragmentation of financial markets, diversification of funding sources and enhancement of cross-border capital flows. a more stable and stronger capital market is an important part of the response to the challenge of strengthening the economy and creating new jobs, which is why i supported the report by mr jezek.
written. ‒ the prospectus directive 2003/71/ec harmonises the rules for the publication of prospectuses when companies wish to raise capital either by issuing shares or by offering investment opportunities to the general public. the commission subsequently proposed, within the framework of the cmu, a revision of the prospectus directive in order to simplify the procedure and reduce costs and provide clear information to investors. the imco is responsible for the legislative oversight of consumer interests across a range of sectors, including the financial services sector, and for promoting competitiveness in the single market. i support the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading.
written. ‒ i support this regulation as it aims to lay down the requirements for the drawing up, approval and distribution of the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market established in a member state. i agree that the aforementioned prospectus should contain the information that investors need to make informed investment decisions. i particularly support the commission's proposal to revise the prospectus directive in order to simplify procedures and reduce the cost of raising capital for companies, especially smes. it is important to give small investors access to the information they need to make informed decisions and to enable smes to have better access to finance.
written. ‒ i support this report on interim measures in favour of italy and greece. italy and greece are overburdened by the influx of refugees and the relocation of some of them to other member states facilitates their functioning. i think we need to show more solidarity with each other and create an effective european asylum system.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 introducing temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, as i strongly support legal and safe routes to the european union for people seeking protection and asylum. this report is aimed at facilitating the resettlement of syrians from turkey, and i believe that in the context of the humanitarian crisis in which the union finds itself, it is imperative to provide concrete and effective measures available as soon as possible. long-term solutions are needed to tackle this problem in an effective and concrete way, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the influx of third-country nationals has increased significantly in certain eu member states. the pressure of the migration influx was also felt in other exposed countries, such as italy. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative, including on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative, and on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu asylum system. this is confirmed by the european parliament resolution of 12 april 2016 on the situation in the mediterranean, which stresses the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration and calls for the development and diversification of migration flows towards the union. the relocation of migrants from the territory of one member state to the territory of another member state is one of the key mechanisms within the framework of the emergency assistance to be provided to member states such as greece and italy and should be supported. the european border and coast guard agency should be responsible for continuously analysing the situation of mass inflows of migrants into the member states. in line with these arguments, i supported the proposal for a council decision and believe that it will contribute to a more efficient management of migration flows in the eu.
‒ croatia has embraced the refugee and migrant crisis in a humanitarian aspect and by highlighting the empathy of croatian citizens towards incoming refugees and migrants. in the second half of september and october 2015, 299 969 refugees and migrants entered croatia and then left for third countries by 1 november 2015. in croatia, 4857 applications were submitted between 2004 and 2015. at the beginning of the crisis, transit centres such as opatovca and slavonski brod were established, with a capacity of 5000 to 10000 people, which were sufficient for short-term accommodation. asylum-seekers' shelters such as those in kutina and zagreb are an indication of croatia's readiness to provide assistance. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and migration, including on the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and migration. italy and greece need support, but europe ultimately needs to define a common policy on asylum and immigration that focuses on dealing with the outcome, rather than on fighting fires as has been the case so far.
written. ‒ i supported the report by ms keller, because the introduction of temporary measures in favour of italy and greece, which would allow the resettlement or reception of refugees and reduce the migratory pressure, is evidence of joint action to address the refugee-migration crisis and to find a solidary care for refugees in accordance with international laws and regulations. the european border and coast guard, whose duty is to keep under constant surveillance the inflow of migrants into italy and greece, has a particularly important role to play. the agreement with turkey is also important, as it has significantly reduced the refugee wave and strengthened the control of the migration wave.
written. ‒ i accept this report because i believe that the world is facing one of the largest refugee and migration waves in history and that europe must play its part in tackling this problem in a humanitarian way. in greece and italy, the number of asylum seekers is increasing and the need for urgent relocation will continue to be a major problem for eu border countries. humanitarian reception from turkey is needed to reduce the number of illegal entries into turkey and later into the european union. i think it is necessary to extend the reception facilities to the territories of other member states, because there are 12 764 asylum seekers in italy and 41 236 in greece. these two countries cannot bear the burden of accepting and caring for refugees and immigrants in the eu alone. the transfer of the applicant shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures laid down in the second subparagraph of article 5 (1) of regulation (eu) no 604/2014. the european union must show solidarity at this crucial moment not only with refugees but also with its border member states, which bear the brunt of the wave of migration and refugees.
written. ‒ as part of the common asylum policy, article 78 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides for a specific legal basis for dealing with crisis situations. the council, acting on a proposal from the european commission and after consulting the european parliament, may adopt provisional measures for the benefit of one or more member states facing a crisis situation due to a sudden inflow of third-country nationals into one or more member states. on the basis of article 78 (3) tfeu, the council adopted two decisions establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. i support the report on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 introducing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
written. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council decision introducing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. as i have already said, i believe that we cannot deal only with the redistribution of migrants. the report calls on member states to take in migrants and to step up efforts to respond to the humanitarian situation in greece and prevent further deterioration of the situation in italy. however, the practice of taking in and redistributing has already proved ineffective, and i therefore believe that the priority should be to tackle the problem where it arises rather than to impose additional pressure on member states.
written. ‒ i support this report on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states and consider that the commission must amend its proposal in line with the report and take into account the amended guidelines in order to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market with the potential to address the serious impact of unemployment, to ensure a high level of employment and to ensure decent working conditions, including national minimum basic income schemes and social protection.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (com ((2016) 0071 c8-0098/2016 2016/0043 nle)) given the importance of employment policy and the need for parliament to be involved in the adoption of this legislative initiative, given that the members come from all countries and are very familiar with the situation on the ground and the problems of unemployment. in view of the rapid economic changes, it is important to continue integrating the labour market, promoting better education and flexibility and aligning needs and demand with education policies. the unions need a holistic policy against unemployment. the tax burden should be shifted from labour to other sources of taxation. civil society organisations, regional and local governments should be involved in the design of the necessary reforms and policies. i support the targets to increase the employment rate for 20 to 64 year olds to 75% by 2020 and to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10%.
‒ the europe 2020 strategy should enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. in this respect, the evolution of the employment and social indicators of the europe 2020 strategy so far is of concern given that the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased. this report underlines that the achievement of the employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy must remain a key policy objective of the member states. in its resolution of 22 february, the european parliament called on the member states to carry out an in-depth analysis and pursue reforms on the basis of employment indicators (activity rate, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment). member states must reduce barriers to employment by reducing red tape, promote youth entrepreneurship and, in particular, support the creation and growth of micro-entrepreneurs and smes. the creation of green jobs is also necessary and, to that end, the more efficient use of the european social fund and other union funds is needed to combat poverty, promote quality employment, social inclusion, education, public administration and public services. the european fund for strategic investments and its investment platform should also be mobilised to ensure the creation of quality jobs and the training of workers. for all of the above, i have endorsed this report.
written. ‒ the fact is that economic policies and employment promotion are issues of common interest and concern all eu member states. the eu has also been active in promoting the integration of migrants into the labour market, and in the fight against poverty. in the europe 2020 strategy, the european commission has proposed a move towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion at eu level; in that proposal, i particularly welcome the move towards social cohesion at eu level, as we are still facing economic and social inequalities within the eu. the commission has also provided the member states with detailed guidance on the establishment of national reform programmes and the implementation of reforms. these programmes are coordinated with those of other member states, leading to a homogenisation of economic policies in the eu. i therefore consider that the existing decision, which has been valid until now, should be re-supported in order to remain valid.
written. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the eu provides that the employment guidelines and the economic policies together constitute the guidelines for the implementation of the employment strategy. in defining and implementing the strategy, the union must ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market that can respond to high unemployment, ensure working conditions and social protection, a high level of education and training and combat all forms of discrimination. i supported the agee report, as it is important that member states invest in education and vocational training systems to raise the level of knowledge and skills of the workforce in order to better meet the needs of dynamic labour markets and ensure a high level of employment.
written. ‒ i accept the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, as i consider the issue of unemployment to be of great importance, especially youth unemployment. the problem of unemployment must be tackled quickly and effectively. investments and job creation are needed, and the green, white and blue sectors and the social economy need to be actively promoted. wages must be high enough to exceed the living wage, which would together reduce poverty in the union. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the eu requires member states to regard their economic policies and employment promotion as matters of common interest and to coordinate them within the council. i support the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states of the committee on employment and social affairs.
written. - i support this report. the aim is to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants does not threaten the survival of those species in the wild. the eu became a signatory to the convention in 2015. the trade in wildlife has become the fourth largest black market after drugs, human smuggling and arms. the eu is the main transit and destination market for illegal trade in wildlife, birds, turtles, reptiles and plant species subject to a high level of protection under cites. the eu has a growing number of people illegally trafficking in exotic species kept as pets. i believe that member states must show political will and step up their efforts to combat illegal wildlife trade.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg (south africa) from 24 september to 5 october 2016, as i believe that the endangered species covered by this motion need to be protected from extinction, extermination, smuggling and poaching, which is considered the fourth largest illegal market in the world. the eu has signed the world's largest wildlife conservation treaty, cites, to ensure the continuation of the wider environmental policy objectives and to regulate international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora and to promote the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development policies. i believe that joint international cooperation among all actors in the law enforcement chain is of the utmost importance in order to strengthen law enforcement capacities at local, regional, national and international levels.
written. ‒ cites is the world's largest wildlife conservation agreement, with 181 parties to the convention, including the eu. cites aims to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants does not threaten the survival of these species in the wild. according to the red list of threatened species of the international union for conservation of nature and natural resources (iucn), more than 23000 species are threatened with extinction, which is about 30% of the species assessed by the iucn, and the illegal trade in wildlife is the fourth largest black market. the eu is a major transit and destination market for the illegal trade in wildlife, in particular for trade in birds, turtles, reptiles and plant species, and therefore the eu's accession to cites is a key step to ensure the continuation of european environmental policy objectives and to regulate international trade in endangered species. it will also continue to promote the un's 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on the eu's strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). cites is the only successful globally established system for the protection of endangered species and it is essential that it be further developed to maximise the protection of endangered species. the accession of the eu to the convention was only one of the administrative steps necessary for its better implementation. it is up to the member states to strengthen and fully implement this system. according to the red list of threatened species of the international union for conservation of nature and natural resources (iucn), more than 23000 species are threatened with extinction, which is about 30% of the total 79837 species assessed by the iucn. if we know that illegal trade in species is the most lucrative illegal business after drug, arms and human trafficking, it is clear that criminal groups find refuge in this niche. by controlling international trade, environmental devastation and the extinction of endangered species can be prevented. unfortunately, during the 1990s, it was precisely the lack of regulation that allowed the devastation of the adriatic by excessive fishing. in croatia during the war and postwar period, some took advantage of the lack of proper supervision, and this is still the situation today in most of the unstable countries of asia and africa. it's our duty to help them.
‒ cites is the world's largest wildlife conservation agreement, with 181 parties to the convention, including the eu and its 28 member states. taking into account the seriousness of the global biodiversity loss, representing the sixth wave of mass extinction of species, as well as the role of forests and tropical forests, which represent the world's largest terrestrial biodiversity reserve, and the very purpose of cites, which seeks to ensure that international trade in wild fauna and flora does not threaten the survival of those species in the wild, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) will be held in johannesburg, south africa, from 24 september to 5 october 2016. i support the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg, south africa, from 24 september to 5 october 2016.
written. ‒ the eu postal services market is highly fragmented. in some member states, the national postal service enjoys a privileged position on the market and hinders the development of competition. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the market in order to determine whether they are appropriate. although the letter-post business is in decline, the parcel market has grown by 70 percent in a few years. this is the result of the growth of online commerce and it is precisely for the sake of consumer confidence in this form of buying that the price illogic of intra-eu postal services needs to be removed.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the application of the postal services directive because i believe that the postal services market has strong prospects for growth and increased competitiveness, in particular thanks to the advances in information and communication technologies which provide opportunities for innovation and enable the expansion of the postal services market. although member states are experiencing a large decline in paper-based communications, on the other hand, parcel and express revenues now account for more than half of the total revenues in the postal services sector. this is a competitive, innovative and fast-growing sector that certainly needs to be promoted and maintained in the effective competition that this report, which i voted for, is talking about.
written. ‒ the 2008 postal services review achieved the key objectives of liberalising european postal services, which have changed considerably since the full opening of the market. new technologies have made it easier to shop online and have increased the number of parcels entrusted to postal operators, with parcel and express revenues accounting for more than half of the total revenues in the postal services sector. the report highlights that good postal services are an important part of communication in the eu's internal market and that the postal sector makes a key contribution to social, economic and territorial cohesion and the development of the digital single market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the measures in question. consumers and small businesses complain that problems with parcel delivery and high prices discourage them from using postal services, especially when selling or buying from other member states. promoting greater competition in this sector is important for achieving the europe 2020 goals of sustainable growth, i.e. an economy based on resource efficiency and greater competitiveness, and i therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ despite the many changes that have taken place in the postal sector, it remains very important for the eu, especially for social, economic and territorial cohesion. the ep had this in mind when it drafted this motion for a resolution, which i support for many reasons. the ep proposes that national regulations of individual member states should be aligned with the postal services directive, thus achieving homogeneity of this sector in all member states. parliament also relies on the commission for many of the issues that follow postal services in general. it calls for a reassessment that low population density is not a justification for reducing the frequency of delivery, since everyone has the right to an equal supply of services. the ep also calls for cooperation between member states and the commission in the supervision of the provision of postal services for the sake of transparency and fairness. the resolution repeatedly emphasises transparency, which i welcome, especially when it comes to transparency in terms of delivery options and quality and performance with a view to building trust with users. what i also think is a good proposal is to ensure decent working conditions for all employees in the postal services sector.
written. ‒ the 2008 postal services review has achieved the key objectives of liberalising european postal services. however, the digitisation of the postal services has changed the society and many member states have seen a decline in this type of communication. the eu postal sector continues to make a key contribution to social, economic and territorial cohesion and to the development of the digital single market. it is important to promote and maintain effective competition in the postal services sector, which will also lead to the achievement of the europe 2020 sustainable growth goals of an economy based on the efficient use of resources and greater competitiveness, which is why i supported the report by mr ferber.
written. ‒ i accept the report on the application of the postal services directive because i consider the postal services market to be an area of the economy with strong prospects for growth and increased competitiveness. strengthening postal services provides opportunities for innovation and by enabling the expansion of this market we will stimulate economic growth. the parcel delivery market is a highly competitive, fast-growing sector and e-commerce should therefore be taken into account. the commission has also taken into account the need to harmonise postal services and costs across the european union. the commission should be able to conclude that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty.
written. ‒ the postal services market remains an area of the economy with strong prospects for increased competitiveness and growth, despite the fact that, according to the european commission, the use of letter delivery services in the european union has fallen by almost 5% on average in recent years, largely as a result of the process of replacing postal communication with electronic communication. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the measures in question. consumers and small businesses complain that problems with parcel delivery and high prices discourage them from using postal services, especially when selling or buying from other member states. i support the report on the application of the postal services directive, as i believe that the guidelines set out therein are well written and will contribute to the maintenance of universal service and allow for fair competition in a market where customer needs, access and quality of service are taken into account.
written. ‒ postal services continue to play a key role in the european union, although the nature of this role is changing as the introduction of new technologies encourages the shift to online services and increases the volume of online shopping. the high potential of e-commerce means that accessible and reliable parcel delivery services are more important than ever to help realise the potential of the digital single market. national regulatory authorities continue to play a key role in supporting and monitoring the application of the postal services directive in the member states. the european postal regulators group, established in 2010, has improved the consultation, coordination and cooperation of national regulatory authorities at european level. in general, the two fundamental objectives of the european postal policy, namely to ensure a minimum number of services of a certain quality at affordable prices for all users and to open up a market with fair conditions of competition, have been largely achieved, although concerns remain regarding the cross-border parcel delivery market. however, the postal market continues to develop rapidly and therefore requires constant and close monitoring and analysis of the overall postal market and the effects of the regulatory framework, which is why i voted in favour of the report on the application of the postal services directive.
written. ‒ i support this balanced and far-reaching report which calls for measures to defend public and private investment, with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises led by women and minorities. in particular, this report follows up the work launched by the commission in 2015 and asks the commission to pay particular attention to the specificities of smes and to ensure that cross-border activities in the area of retail financial services lead to better access to finance for smes.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme financing in the cmu, because, in particular, smes, which play a very important role in the european economy in terms of employment and growth, had access to finance more limited than larger companies during the crisis. it is precisely the diversification of financing opportunities for smes that this report, which i supported, is talking about in order to increase the financing opportunities for smes and to make this one of the priorities of the capital markets union initiative.
written. ‒ as smes make up a significant part of the eu economy, their access to finance is of paramount importance. the commission notes that the bank's lending to smes has been limited in the past, and that the bank's lending to smes has been limited in the present. the report highlights the diversification of financing opportunities for smes as one of the priorities of the capital markets union initiative. member states have different types of smes, depending on their business model, size, stage of development, financial structure and legal form, and the different economic environments and structural factors in member states strongly influence the financial needs and availability of funding opportunities. it is these multiple factors, which vary from one member state to another, that need to be taken into account when designing appropriate policy measures aimed at diversifying funding opportunities for smes. it is important to support access to finance for smes throughout their life cycle and appropriate measures should be taken to support them in their preparation for the transfer of business. addressing and encouraging bank lending channels is the most effective way of ensuring and improving access to finance for smes, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to increase the diversity of sme financing in the cmu. we often talk about the importance of smes and the need to focus on them if we want economic growth and development with more jobs and solutions to social issues, but we forget that we must first provide them with the conditions in which to operate and help them with financing. most smes disappear at the very beginning of their creation, even if they had a good idea, but they did not have any additional funds available with their own funds, or they had difficulty making a profit or they lacked advice on financing. for this reason, financial education of smes is essential to increase the use of funds and the management of these funds. banking systems for financing entrepreneurship must be more lenient in setting interest rates on loans, because high interest rates on loans prevent development, and in most cases the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises, which should not be in our interest.
written. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) make up a significant part of the eu economy, but their access to finance was limited during the financial crisis. the diversification of funding opportunities for such companies has become one of the priorities of the cmu. i supported the report by mr karas because it is important that we provide adequate support to smes, in particular with regard to better financing opportunities and tax relief and to ensuring a level playing field for all businesses and their development.
written. ‒ i support the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme financing in the cmu because micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-caps play an important role in the european economy, accounting for 67% of all jobs in 2014, the scope of financing for smes should be as broad as possible in order to ensure that they have the best possible access to financing at every stage of their development, given that financing for smes has been hit harder by the crisis than for large enterprises. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets, in particular on the financial markets, in order to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets.
‒ in 2014, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) accounted for 67% of all jobs and 71,4% of employment growth. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests. however, there is no single definition of smes in european union legislation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european works council, the establishment of a european works council and the establishment of a european works council. the scope of sme financing should be as broad as possible in order to ensure that smes have the best access to finance at every stage of their development. i support the report on access to finance for smes, as i believe that the guidelines are well-established and will establish the best possible access to finance for smes.
written. ‒ i am pleased that this report highlights the key role of smes as the backbone of our economy for growth and job creation, as they provide two thirds of private sector jobs and more than half of the added value of businesses in the eu, which is why i supported this report. in addition to access to the world market, access to finance is one of the most important factors for the creation, sustainability, performance, competitiveness and growth of smes, and in the current climate of crisis and in a situation characterised by budget cuts, a high degree of bank dependence and a decline in investor confidence, inter alia, hamper the inflow of funds into the real economy, and in particular into long-term investment. in this sense, cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support for smes and is important for strengthening their economic activity. the complex rules and administrative burden for access to the european structural and investment funds have a particularly negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, including administrative costs disproportionate to the size of the enterprise. it is therefore important to simplify those procedures considerably and to pay particular attention to the fight against fraud and error.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that smes are the backbone of the european economy. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on how best to harness the job creation potential of smes, because it brings many important regulatory frameworks, regulations and implementations that are well on the way to reducing the burden on smes, and allowing the stability of existing and the creation of new quality jobs. smes have created 85% of jobs in europe over the past decade and make an important contribution to the eu's socio-economic growth and development. the report stresses the need to ensure a level playing field for smes in terms of their competitiveness compared to large corporations. in some cases, the eu competition policy itself results in benefits for large operators that are more economically efficient than smes. in this respect, this report highlights the need for specific measures for smes to reduce their market failure and thus enable internationalisation and stimulate job creation potential.
written. ‒ the european economic fabric is based on small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the source of new jobs and the engine of the european economy. smes have an important role to play in strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion, also contributing to smarter and more sustainable growth, and this sector is important at regional level, especially in rural regions. despite the internal market rules, there are still significant differences across the eu in the regulatory framework for smes, with high labour costs and excessive red tape being among the main obstacles to job creation. the eu budget should therefore contribute to stimulating the creation of long-term, quality and sustainable jobs. member states need to address skills shortages and mismatches, brain drain, unnecessary regulatory burdens and insufficient dialogue between labour market stakeholders, and limited access to finance and public procurement. vocational education and training, and in particular dual systems in cooperation with smes, should receive greater public support, as they are an important tool in reducing youth unemployment. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. improved quality of regulation and better enforcement are the way to reduce the burden on smes and the main prerequisite for stability and job creation, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the proposal on the potential of smes to create jobs. we know that in the eu countries, youth unemployment is present, especially in the east, south and central part of europe, while in the west, small and medium-sized enterprises are among the main activities in the eu and we can call them the backbone of the eu economic system. what distinguishes central europe in the development of smes from the rest of europe is the system that prevents the development of such an activity, which is constrained by various administrative and regulatory obstacles in the rest of europe. this approach to small and medium-sized enterprises is not good and encourages the departure of young educated people to the western parts of europe and exerts pressure. we need to encourage young entrepreneurs and enable them to work and thrive in their country so that the rest of europe can develop, and with that, solve social problems such as starting a family and increasing the birth rate that will sustain the pension system. a great opportunity can be found in e-commerce, and since young people have the internet at their fingertips, it is necessary to take advantage of this opportunity. i am in favour of vocational guidance in smes and examples of best practice for young people in smes and, i repeat, the reduction of the restrictive approach on which the market economy should be based.
‒ the european economic structure is mainly based on small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the source of new jobs and the engine of the european economy. while in stable economies growth is generated by the effective interaction between smes and large enterprises, in many southern and eastern member states, the difficult economic conditions are slowing down the development of smes. i supported the report of the representative of krasnodębski because it is important to ensure a level playing field for small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of their competitiveness in relation to large companies, which will also create the potential for creating new jobs and resulting in economic growth.
written. ‒ i accept this report because i believe that smes have an important role to play in strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to an undertaking in difficulty. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. such type of enterprise is more resilient to the economic crisis in terms of job losses, more specifically, cooperatives in industrial and service activities proved more resilient in the 2008 crisis period than other enterprises. in principle, it is difficult to find data on contractual arrangements and the organisation of the work of smes. the working conditions, according to eurofound, are much more acceptable than those of larger companies.
written. ‒ in 2014, 22.3 million smes were active in the 28 member states of the european union. smes create around two thirds of private sector jobs and make an important contribution to the socio-economic growth and development of the european union. smes also make a major contribution to employment growth. eurofound research has shown that smes are innovative, operate internationally and are mainly located in cities. smes contribute to smarter, sustainable and inclusive growth. the eu-wide regulatory framework for smes remains highly divergent. i support the report on how best to harness the job creation potential of smes, as i believe that the guidelines set out therein are of high quality and will contribute to the creation of new jobs and to the creation of a new skilled workforce. the commission considers that the measures under assessment are proportionate and appropriate to the objective pursued.
written. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) create more jobs than other private sector companies, providing about two thirds of total private sector employment in the eu, and entrepreneurs and smes make an important contribution to the eu's socio-economic growth and development. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. there are skills shortages and inequalities across the eu, as well as outflows of skilled workers from euro area countries severely affected by the crisis to other member states. as a representative from croatia, a country where the departure of highly educated young people in search of any kind of job is one of the most pressing issues, i am particularly sensitive to this issue. it is precisely in terms of youth unemployment that croatia, with its rate of 43.1 percent, is at the very top of europe. in view of the above, i strongly support this report on how best to exploit the job creation potential of smes and i call on member states to avoid excessive regulation that stifles the competitiveness of enterprises and their job creation potential and to work towards removing unnecessary regulatory and administrative burdens.
written. ‒ according to recent surveys, women on average receive about 16 percent less than their male colleagues. that means that in comparison to them, he's working 59 days for free. that is the significance of this directive. we cannot allow women, who are graduating from college in greater numbers, to be unemployed, which then affects their position in the family, in society, and of course their retirement.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the application of council directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation (the 'employment equality directive') because i am aware that discrimination is unfortunately still part of the daily lives of many europeans and i believe in a better world when all member states remove the natural, social and economic barriers that prevent the principle of equality from being realised and restrict the freedom of european citizens. this report, which i supported, stresses the need to work on strengthening dialogue between governments, civil society and social partners on all forms of discrimination and raising public awareness. the commission has also been able to identify the main areas of concern for the member states in the fight against discrimination, such as the right to education, the right to health, the right to social security, the right to healthcare, the right to healthcare and the right to social security.
written. ‒ the ep's motion for a resolution makes many constructive proposals with the common aim of preventing discrimination in the employment of persons. respect for human dignity and human rights is of key importance and must be the guiding principle in these matters. the resolution focuses on vulnerable groups that should have equal rights in employment, namely people with disabilities and older people aged 55-65. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat racism and xenophobia in the eu. however, despite the many good aspects of this motion for a resolution, i cannot support it because there are some ideologically impregnated elements present. i do not agree that the social and political climate is becoming more tolerant of extremist, racist and xenophobic agendas, and i do not agree that the term family includes some communities that are not based on marriage between a man and a woman.
written. ‒ it is 15 years since the adoption of the employment equality directive, whose ultimate aim is to create a level playing field for all in employment and occupation. however, work is needed to strengthen dialogue between governments, civil society and social partners on all forms of discrimination and to raise public awareness of discrimination. i supported the report because the creation of advanced legislation, non-discrimination and social inclusion in the workplace are priorities for all member states.
written. ‒ i accept the report on the application of council directive 2000/78/ec, because i consider it necessary to combat social exclusion and discrimination. the european union is founded on the values of freedom, democracy, equality, respect for human dignity and respect for human rights and must promote assistance to persons who have experienced any form of discrimination. women continue to suffer from multiple direct and indirect discrimination in the labour market and this needs to change. any discrimination based on age, race or ethnic origin, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin and any other type of discrimination faced by people in the context of employment must also be combated. the directive requires member states to combat all forms of discrimination in the employment of people.
written. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and fights against social exclusion and discrimination. in formulating its policies, the eu focuses on combating discrimination based on gender, race and religion. non-discrimination in employment is only successful if discrimination is combated in all areas of life. women, especially pregnant women and mothers, are the hardest hit by unemployment and are victims of negative discrimination in employment. one in five young people in the european union is looking for a job, and the total cost of youth unemployment is estimated at €153 billion a year. also, older workers are still often subject to discrimination on the basis of age or stereotypes. i support the report on the establishment of a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, because i believe that all people of working age must have equal rights in employment and not be subject to any discrimination.
written. ‒ the ultimate objective of the employment equality directive is to create a level playing field for all in terms of equality in employment and occupation. despite an increase in perceptions of discrimination, many victims of discrimination remain unaware of their rights or are afraid to take legal action against discriminatory practices due to various factors such as a lack of trust in the competent authorities of the member states or complex and lengthy legal proceedings. i regret that the notion of human rights as a universal, indivisible and interrelated legal principle is more valid in theory than in practice, given that the existing eu legal instruments treat different aspects of the human being separately. i hope that all member states will remove the natural, social and economic barriers that prevent the principle of equality from being achieved and limit the freedom of european citizens, which is why i have supported this report on the application of the employment equality directive.
written. ‒ i support this report on the european globalisation adjustment fund, which provides support for people who lose their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. i believe we must all fight for a europe that ensures improved living and working conditions and for the promotion of a european social model consisting of strong social protection, quality public services and social dialogue.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities, impact and value added of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2007-2014, given that the fund is intended to provide support and solidarity to workers declared surplus as a result of the economic crisis. the egf has been shown to contribute to social cohesion by helping large groups of people in dire need of such assistance, with a positive impact on the beneficiaries' families and the wider community. the new regulation lays down new rules that will improve the efficiency of the fund in terms of funding, operations and stricter timeframes and reporting. the egf is intended to cover the financing of measures to promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the improvement of the quality of life of the less-favoured areas. the new rules should enable the egf to respond even more effectively to any new global financial or economic crisis.
‒ the european union is founded on the values of freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and fights against social exclusion and discrimination. women, especially pregnant women and mothers, are the hardest hit by unemployment and are victims of negative discrimination in employment. this report highlights the important role that national equality bodies play in implementing the employment equality directive by raising awareness and collecting data, working with social partners and tackling the problem of non-reporting of discrimination. it is essential to continue to strengthen the role of national equality bodies, their impartiality, the development of their activities and the increase of their capacities. i supported this report because i believe that all people of working age should have equal rights in employment and that we must systematically fight discrimination at all levels.
written. ‒ this resolution firstly takes into account the consequences of globalisation, which has caused major structural changes in the world trade flows. this was the original reason why the egf was set up. the egf was subsequently extended to cover workers declared redundant as a result of the general financial and economic crisis in the period 2009-2011. the main objective of the egf today is to contribute to smart, inclusive and sustainable economic growth and to foster sustainable employment, which i agree with. i also support the resolution because it contains many constructive provisions which bear a very strong social dimension, which i particularly welcome. the resolution also places a strong emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises. they account for 85% of all businesses in the eu. the resolution calls for measures to facilitate the financing of smes, given that the egf currently has a very limited impact on smes, despite the obvious fact that it can finance smes. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to show solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs in cases of mass redundancies that have had an impact on the regional or local economy. the funding of all eligible actions shall be conditional upon the active participation of the beneficiaries in job-search or training. the european added value is one of the measures which distinguish egf interventions from those of the member states. the reform of the fund has enabled the use of egf resources by self-employed persons who are not in education or training. the correct use of egf measures, the equitable and fair distribution of resources across all member states within an appropriate timeframe can help to reduce the level of unemployment and ensure a stable labour market, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ i accept the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2007-2014, given that the purpose of the european fund itself is to express solidarity with persons, i.e. workers, declared surplus as a result of changes in world trade. i also think that there is a need for some kind of european legal framework on informing and advising workers in the event of job loss, which would work in a way that would help them succeed and help in situations where it is even possible to predict and stop job losses. it is essential to have a well-developed industrial relations system in place to ensure that the rights of workers and their representatives with regard to advice and information are clearly defined. addressing the unemployment crisis, protecting the workplace should be made the cornerstone of eu policy, as the unemployment rates themselves show.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide support and solidarity to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes, and restructuring has become more frequent in recent years. the reintegration of beneficiaries of the european globalisation adjustment fund will be more successful if it results in quality employment. the threshold of minimum excess workforce has been reduced from 1000 workers to 500, but there is a possibility to apply the egf in exceptional circumstances where redundancies affect employment and the local, regional or national economy. the co-financing rate is 60%, whereas the original rate was 50%. i support the report on the activities, impact and value added of the european globalisation adjustment fund 2007-2014 as i believe that the measures set out therein are well developed and will contribute to a better overall functioning of the fund.
written. ‒ i voted with abstention on the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2007-2014. although the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to foster sustainable employment, i believe that re-skilling workers is not enough to preserve jobs. i am of the opinion that the current measures provided by this fund do not contribute to maintaining jobs and the competitiveness of the european union economy. only long-term measures, such as cutting red tape and high taxes, can help the eu economy and reduce unemployment.
mr. president, since the contest since the fixing of the results. and especially the rigging of the results since the betting began. but it started in ancient times. so, the rigging of results has been around since the ancient olympics. since then, mankind has not been able to solve this problem. and how are we gonna do that today, with all the money in this dirty business? i'm not sure we're going to get this sorted out easily, and it may take a few hundred or a few thousand years. for it is evident today that we still have a number of scandals in the sports that we all love. of course, each of us will mention football. i'll never forget one match that was in 1982 between what was then west germany and austria when by fixing the results of those two countries, those two national teams, they actually agreed to prevent algeria from going further in the world competition. a german fan burned the german flag, the algerians threw money on the pitch and showed how they felt about such a result. he's already known at the us open in tennis or the australian cup. there is a well-known example, the example of tennis player novak djokovic who when he was offered money to fix a tennis score reported it to the tax authorities, reported it to the police and showed that there is also fair play in sports, that there are those who do not want money at any cost and that they are not corruptible and such as luck in relation to these thieves with whom we fight has just as much. but let's not forget that the question of match-fixing is in a variety of sports from the top, as i said from the national teams, from the bundesliga, from the premiership, from all the major leagues of world football to the smallest, to those minor leagues that are played, so to speak, in some small regions within the european union or the world. there are rigged results everywhere. not to mention there were some horrifying situations - famously, three lebanese referees were convicted at the same time for soliciting sexual favours for their own fixing of football scores. and that was that. so what i wanted to do with this speech is simply to emphasize that we have a big mania that will not be easy to contain, and i believe that our message to the young and our message to the fans must be the same. we want to reduce this evil as much as possible, and of course the prerequisites for that are the involvement of the european commission, the involvement of the member states, the signing of the council of europe convention and credibility in all of this.
mr president, thank you, but i told my colleague that he can have my minute because i am only going to speak for about 40 seconds, so we divided this up well! gospodine predsjedniče, namještanje utakmica, od najniže do najviše lige, pogotovo u nogometu, traje desetljećima. o tome se uvijek pričalo. netko ponekad prijavi, bude istraga i u većini je slučajeva sve zataškano. zašto? zato što oni koji namještaju utakmice imaju zaštitu u svojim vladama. koliko znam, većina vlada država članica eu-a ne troše previše ni vremena, a ni novca da promoviraju sport i takmičenja kao nešto zdravo, pošteno, fer i da to bude dobar primjer za mlade. kada bi bilo političke volje, match fixing mafia bi se brzo razbila, a sport bi se vratio tamo gdje mu je mjesto, a to je zdravo, pošteno, fer natjecanje.
mr president, mr commissioner, i cannot imagine that the eu will not have an agreement with the acp countries after 2020. the 2000 cotonou agreement is, of course, a paper that is a little outdated and that today calls for new visions, new proposals and new relations. but objectively, we need a global framework because we're working with these countries to solve the key problems of this planet. later, we'll talk about poverty and how to eradicate it. most of the poor people live in the acp countries, not to mention the migration problem that we talk about all the time. of course, i'm inclined to, as the saying goes, "give a man a hook, not a fish". we help the acp countries to develop their own economies on the principles of sustainable development and in this way resolve the crisis we are facing.
mr president, this debate reminded me of the 1990s in croatia, during the war in the balkans when many people were displaced, when many refugees came to istria, the region where i was politically active at the time, when we, many young people, primary and secondary school students, had serious problems to continue their educational cycle. some people lost a few months, some people lost a year, but we're talking about children losing years. and that is truly tragic. looking back on those days and knowing about the problems in one organized country like croatia with a hundred problems, but an organized country i can imagine what it might look like in lebanon or jordan. i urge you, mr commissioner, to make the extra effort, however deeply committed you are, to help these countries because they deserve our support.
mr. president, let's look at the world we live in. on the one hand, we are discussing in this parliament how to protect the eu's high-quality agricultural products. i'm part of that debate and i support it. but on the other hand, we have acute hunger. in this parliament we often talk about the fact that food is being thrown away in european restaurants, supermarkets and shops, and on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have acute hunger, which is present mainly and primarily in africa, but not only on that continent. we have a situation today where hundreds of millions of people are living on the brink of starvation, on the brink of existence. sadly, a huge number of them, millions, are children. what's paradoxical about this whole story is that often it's the people who live on the land, at the end of the land, on the land, who are hungry. i'm talking about africa again. japan has set a good example, and some african countries have started to educate and teach rice farming. i know that our commission is also working on educating the people in africa to produce their own food, because i have always been convinced that those who are hungry should be helped, but primarily by giving them a hook so that they can catch fish, not by giving them fish. and in that context, i am convinced that our policy must also go in that direction. and help with fish, so specifically food aid, but primarily help with education and how to produce food in developing countries.
mr president, the issue of illegal logging, deforestation and forest degradation is of particular importance for my homeland croatia because almost half of its territory is covered by forests. in recent years, the so-called "forest mafia" has become increasingly active, stealing thousands of cubic feet of timber annually, whether it is firewood or the expensive oak and beech logs that are illegally supplied to the logging industry. the problem is particularly pronounced in private forests where the owners do not live on their property and where property-legal relations are not regulated, but it does not bypass state forests either. thieves are well organized and networked, state forest rangers cannot effectively patrol and prevent theft over such a large area, and the police have a hard time tracking thieves. if we really want to protect forests, the state must manage its own forests more effectively, and private forest owners should be encouraged to form private forest owners' associations and to establish a system of joint supervision that would include a constant exchange of information with the state forestry and police. for countries like croatia, wood is in every sense a strategic resource, and we must not allow anyone to illegally appropriate it and by their predation endanger the future of our forests, their ecosystems and the future of our children.
mr. president, we can easily agree on the situation in latin america, and we know that the excessive production of palm oil in various countries has caused a great deal of deforestation, that unplanned poor agriculture has also done great damage to our planet. but i want to talk about europe, i want to talk about us, i want to talk about the problems we face in the member states of the european union where there is also illegal logging, the theft of forests, the theft of timber and where there is the theft of the resources of people who live surrounded by forests. a concrete example is the gorski kotar in croatia. a failed policy that the state has been pursuing for 25 years, which has caused young people to leave gorsky kotar because they don't see their perspective and their future, and they are surrounded by square kilometers of first-class forest. bad state policy that does not care about the local community and thus does not allow the fantastic resources that gorski kotar has to be used for the benefit of the development of the citizens of this one small but beautiful part of croatia. i think we should talk about such things, mr. commissioner.
mr president, mr commissioner, illegal logging and trade in illegally harvested timber generates an economic loss of 7 billion euros a year. even more significant is the extremely adverse impact on biodiversity and greenhouse gas emissions, which consequently affects the lives of people who depend on forests, distorts the market and, of course, encourages corruption. the european union's forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) action plan, while well conceived in theory, has failed in practice. it is therefore necessary to revive this political initiative as soon as possible and to exploit its potential. it is also time to raise awareness of the state of the eu's forests. the excessive, illegal logging and trade in illegally harvested timber is not just a problem of third countries with which we have flegt agreements, because it happens on a daily basis in our member states too. in croatia, decades of roads and highways are being destroyed, and illegally harvested timber is mostly taken to neighboring countries and placed on the market without controls. i therefore call once again for increased action and coordination in the preservation of european forests. forests are much more important than we think; they are europe's lungs, a source of energy, a custodian of climate and biodiversity, and they should be respected for their outstanding importance.
member of the commission – mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their statements, comments and suggestions, to which i have listened very carefully. i have to say that i agree with many points that have been raised. i will also communicate these to my colleagues, neven mimica, miguel arias and cecilia, with whom i work very closely on deforestation issues. it has already been mentioned that progress is being made even with some timber producers, and in a few weeks’ time we will see the launching of flegt licensing in indonesia. i think this is a major step and one we hope will be followed by ghana next year. at the moment we are discussing vpas with some 15 other countries. so there should be no doubting the commission’s commitment to making flegt work. there were also some interesting points which were made like, for example, mr tomašić, who mentioned the joint surveillance between member states, and the fact that we still have illegal timber coming into europe, and i have to stress again the responsibility of the member states. there is also the fact of the link between deforestation and the agricultural sector, especially the fact that we have to find monoculture and so on, and the socio-economic impact as well. i think many of you also spoke about inadequate implementation and i have to say yes, the commission acknowledges that the absence of an implementation plan to guide strategic management and monitoring has rendered implementation of flegt, and vpas in particular, largely demand-driven. that is why the commission is working towards the development of a multiannual plan to guide activity planning by setting clear targets, indicators, monitoring deadlines and associated budgetary resources. many of the honourable members also mentioned the corruption problem. i totally agree with what they said, and that is why we took a number of precautions, especially in vpas. the scheme developed for vpas has several layers of safeguards and independence. firstly, compliance with legal requirements is checked by private certification companies. secondly, a specific role is provided for civil society to check that audited enterprises and forest operators comply with legal requirements. thirdly, there is an overall systems audit, or periodical evaluation, that is foreseen and that will be carried out at least on an annual basis to check that the system is working properly overall. there were several mentions of dealing with sdgs and climate change, and many of the action plan’s areas of action contribute to addressing several goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, including sdg 8, sdg 12 and sdg 13, which is climate change, sdg 15 which is life on land and sdg 16, which is peaceful and inclusive societies. what the commission intends to do: as indicated in the 7th environmental action plan, the commission remains committed to developing policy proposals to address the deforestation challenge, and to this end the commission is in the process of considering the feasibility of measures to achieve this objective, also as a follow-up to the study on the impact of eu consumption on deforestation. we will continue to ensure adequate resources for the implementation of the action plan, through the development and cooperation instrument, including support for the engagement of civil society, private sector and public administrations. when we talk about resources, as notis marias mentioned, we have not only to monitor and talk about input but, more importantly, i think we need to monitor the output as well. as the court’s report found, the fundamentals of the flegt action plan are right. it is making an important contribution to mitigating climate change and to improving governance by clarifying tenure rights but, i agree, still more needs to be done. the commission is also acting to address the important recommendations of the court to ensure that the action plan is fit for purpose in a world where the pressures on forests are increasing.
written. in implementing the paris agreement, which we will be ratifying in the coming days, it is essential that every country in the world takes responsibility and makes its contribution to achieving the objectives set. in implementing its energy and climate policies, the eu must also ask others to follow its example and contribute to the preservation of their forests. it is on this footing that i believe that the sustainable use of forests as we know them in europe must also be a condition for trade with third countries when it comes to importing timber and timber products. the flegt licence is a voluntary framework within which the desired objectives can be achieved. i consider indonesia to be a positive example, which has increased its share of certified logging from 20% to 90% since 2002, thus demonstrating its commitment to the conservation and sustainable use of its forests. this is important for us because the eu imports almost a third of its tropical timber needs from indonesia. i consider it necessary, as the court of auditors also emphasises in its report, to concretise actions through mechanisms for monitoring and assessing the success of the implementation of the eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade. the existing voluntary certification mechanism needs to be further strengthened in order to ensure that other countries also achieve the protection of their forests at least to the level of their sustainable use.
mr. president, one of the fundamental problems of the community is a lack of trust. although it is based on good neighbourly relations, the fact is that most integration steps have encountered some resistance precisely because the members did not trust each other. a good deal of that distrust has its origins in the judicial system. members want their citizens, businesses and interests to be protected from the judicial authorities of other members, and this is a legitimate request. this report is a step in the right direction. the recognition of the same procedural guarantees and rights of suspects in european arrest warrant proceedings is an important step towards building genuine judicial cooperation and enhancing trust between member states. the commission has also been active in the field of judicial cooperation in the past, in particular in the area of the protection of personal data and the protection of privacy. after the introduction of temporary legal aid, we can expect a significant shift towards better cooperation, which will undoubtedly lead to a strengthening of mutual trust. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the legal basis of the proposed measure. if we want to build trust in the judicial systems of other member states, we need exactly such insurers and i therefore welcome this rapporteur's proposal.
written. - i support this report. i believe that the decision to conclude the paris agreement will send a strong message and highlight the leadership of the eu and its member states and their continued commitment to tackling climate change at international level. i also consider the entry into force of the paris agreement to be a priority for the european union and i call on the council to take all the necessary steps as soon as possible to finalise its position on the ratification of the paris agreement.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change as it gives its consent to the conclusion of that agreement, and i support its ratification and entry into force as soon as possible. the european union has a key role to play in addressing the impacts of climate change at the global level and therefore needs to focus on the effective implementation of the agreement through concrete policies and measures. i consider it extremely important that it is a uniform and legally binding agreement which aims, among other things, to limit the increase in global average temperature, to encourage the transition to clean energy, and to respect to the greatest possible extent the principles of accountability and transparency. avoiding dangerous climate change is in the interest of all global actors, and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the paris climate agreement is a key achievement in the fight against climate change and its adoption marked a decisive turn towards comprehensive and joint global action and efforts to mitigate global warming. these efforts should not be seen as obstacles to economic growth but as a driver for new sustainable growth and jobs. on 6 march 2015, the eu and its member states submitted their envisaged and nationally determined contributions to the unfccc, committing to be directed towards achieving the binding target of reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030. this requires the active involvement of member states and support for the moroccan presidency in its focus on the contribution of renewable energy sources to the fight against climate change. the scope of the measures to be taken by 2020 needs to be increased in order to meet the targets for greenhouse gas emission reductions, renewable energy and energy savings. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to amend the list of countries and territories where the implementation of the unfccc is required. i believe that a globally agreed incentive to innovate in clean and renewable energy technologies is essential to achieve climate goals and to boost growth, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i supported this legislative resolution which represents a significant step towards the entry into force of the paris agreement. unfortunately, after the initial euphoria over the deal reached in late 2015, the eu did not take the necessary steps and it seemed as if we were all asleep together. the eu ratifies the agreement after 62 countries responsible for 51.89% of greenhouse gas emissions have already done so, and its decision allows the agreement to enter into force this year. conscious of my responsibility towards future generations, i can say that i am proud to have had the opportunity today, on behalf of the citizens of croatia and the eu citizens whom i represent here today, to support one of the most important decisions this parliament has taken to save our planet. it is our responsibility to not give up and to continue working and, in cooperation with the council and the commission, to prepare appropriate legislative proposals that will enable the implementation of the agreement in a way that will strengthen our economy and create new jobs in the development and application of technologies that are compatible with the objectives outlined.
written. ‒ the paris agreement is the most important and the first legally binding global climate agreement. the most important objective of this agreement is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and limit the increase in global average temperature to well below 2 °c. the paris agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day following the date on which the parties responsible for at least 55% of the estimated global greenhouse gas emissions deposit their instruments of ratification with the un. so far, 19 of them have deposited their instruments of ratification, representing a total of 0,18% of all global greenhouse gas emissions. the european parliament also welcomed the fact that the eu had taken the necessary steps to ensure that the paris agreement was fully implemented. ratification by the eu allows the treaty to enter into force as the criterion of covering at least 55% of estimated global greenhouse gas emissions is met, which is why i am extremely proud of today's ratification. the adoption of the decision to conclude the paris agreement has re-emphasised the eu's leading role in the fight against climate change.
written. ‒ the paris agreement is a legally binding agreement that marks a historic milestone in the fight against climate change. the fact that 195 countries have agreed to an agreement is a true turning point in global action. key commitments are set out, such as limiting the global temperature increase to well below 2 °c, reducing global emissions, making the global clean energy transition, establishing national climate change mitigation measures, etc. the ratification of the paris agreement by the european parliament is a historic moment for all of humanity, as it sends a strong message and highlights the commitment of the european union to tackling climate change. and we can't just look at it as solving the particular climate problem we face, but as changing the whole paradigm of how humans relate to our planet. as a representative of the greens/efa, i am extremely proud of the current achievements and the fact that this agreement was passed by a large majority, with the votes of 610 meps, including myself. i believe that in the future, better cooperation between countries in the area of sharing adaptation science and information on practices and policies will be encouraged and thus contribute to the effectiveness of the implementation of the objectives. i would also like to stress that the use of clean and green technologies is also the first step towards the sustainable development we all aspire to.
written. - climate change is a global issue. they can be recognized anywhere in the world, regardless of where they originate. the paris agreement is considered to be a highly significant multilateral instrument for climate change mitigation, which seeks to highlight the importance of energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of emissions of harmful substances. the stability of the climate system is important for food security, energy production, water and biodiversity conservation. the union's contribution to the global warming mitigation efforts should be limited to the amount of eur 100 million per year. the agreement covers the key points for addressing the problems and contains the long-term objectives that are intended to be achieved. the eu treaty states that the european union's objective is to contribute to solidarity and sustainable development of the planet earth in its relations with the rest of the world. the eu's environmental policy, as set out in the treaty on the functioning of the eu, promotes measures to combat climate change at international level. the eu, as a major player in climate diplomacy, has one of the leading roles in the fight against climate change. the ratification of the paris agreement brings us one step closer to its entry into force. given the exceptional importance of the agreement, i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
written. ‒ i supported the conclusions of the paris agreement, based on the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), as i believe that this will highlight the leadership of the european union and its member states and continue to address climate change at international level. in particular, i believe that the implementation of the paris agreement will make a key contribution to global efforts to combat climate change and keep the increase in global average temperature well below 2°c compared to pre-industrial levels. since the implementation of this convention will achieve the objective of adapting the ecosystem to climate change, allowing economic development to continue in a sustainable manner and not jeopardising food production, i consider that the european parliament should approve this report without delay.
written. ‒ i support this report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, which is intended to provide financial assistance to enable regions affected by natural disasters to recover as quickly as possible. on 17 november 2015, greece was struck by a strong earthquake, particularly in the region of the ionian islands, the island of lefkada, and the northern parts of ithaca and cephalonia. in this regional natural disaster, two people lost their lives, eight people were injured, and 120 housing units were damaged, 20 of which were considered uninhabitable. major damage to infrastructure, buildings and cultural sites has also been reported. some of the most important tourist beaches on lefkada have also been destroyed. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the total amount of the proposed aid is eur 1 651 834. i certainly support the mobilisation of the fund to show solidarity with the affected regions as soon as possible.
written. ‒ this proposal seeks to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance following the devastating earthquakes in greece in 2015 which resulted in loss of life and damage to infrastructure, buildings and cultural objects. the greek authorities estimated the damage at eur 66 million, representing 2,1% of their gdp, making this a regional disaster. this region is one of the less developed regions under the european structural and investment funds. this is why they have been granted funds from the solidarity fund, 38 million for the transport sector and over 7 million for the protection of cultural heritage. in solidarity with the affected greek regions, i consider it necessary to ensure the rapid approval of these funds, which is why i have supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. the greek regions affected are classified as 'less developed regions' under the european structural and investment funds and the magnitude 6.1 earthquake caused extensive damage. major damage has been reported to infrastructure networks, facilities, but also to cultural sites. the commission notes that the aid granted to the ionian islands was granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per hectare. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the progress of the work of the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ i support the urgent mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in connection with the natural disaster that struck greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquakes that hit the ionian islands region, measuring 6.1 on the richter scale. two people were killed, eight people were injured, and 120 housing units were damaged. major damage to infrastructure, buildings and cultural sites has also been reported. some of the most important tourist beaches on lefkada have also been destroyed. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the commission notes that the aid granted to the ionian islands was granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per hectare. the greek authorities estimated the cost of the emergency critical operations at eur 52 374 000 (eur 38 million transport sector, eur 7 million cultural heritage protection).
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to respond to large-scale natural disasters and to express european solidarity with regions affected by disasters. the european union solidarity fund was mobilised to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015 in the amount of eur 1 651 834. this mobilisation will be fully financed by the partial use of the amount of eur 50 000 000 of commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. the appropriations have already been entered in the 2016 budget and therefore no budget amendment is necessary. i support the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for greece because i believe it is necessary to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by natural disasters and to mitigate at least with financial means the enormous losses.
written. ‒ following the earthquake that hit the ionian islands in november 2015, greece submitted an application to mobilise the fund on the basis of a regional disaster in the amount of eur 1 651 834, which i supported. the commission should be able to request the union to provide additional financial assistance to greece in the event of a natural disaster or exceptional regional disaster, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. i therefore consider it right to provide assistance to the population directly affected by the earthquake in order to enable them to live a dignified life.
written. ‒ i support this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which relates to the layoffs of 2 161 people at microsoft in finland. the surpluses are caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns, and mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund will help the displaced to integrate into the labour market.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request by finland egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft) following the declaration of a surplus of 2161 workers in microsoft mobile oy and its eight suppliers and downstream producers, operating in the economic sector, namely in the fields of programming, consultancy and related activities. the european commission confirms that the conditions of article 4 (1) (a) of the european globalisation adjustment fund regulation are met and that finland is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 5 364 000 under that regulation, which represents 60% of the total cost of eur 8 940 000. i support this report and believe that union financial assistance in this situation should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible.
‒ the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the major structural consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. the union's share of global ict employment has decreased in recent years and the sector plays a key role in the finnish economy. in march 2016, finland submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in microsoft (microsoft mobile oy), which cited the decline in market share of mobile phone sales as the main reason for the redundancies. the decrease in the labour force is linked to major structural changes in world trade under the influence of globalisation, in which the eu's share of ict employment has decreased, while the share of china and the us has increased. in july 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration of workers declared technically redundant in microsoft, amounting to eur 5 364 000. since microsoft mobile oy has fulfilled its legal obligations in managing workers, providing them with the required care and assistance in finding new employment, i supported this proposal.
written. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund as requested by egf/2016/001 f1/microsoft. the it industry is one of the fastest growing industries today, and the need for a new, highly educated workforce is growing accordingly. competition in the it industry is ruthless, whether in the eu market or outside it. unfortunately, in this situation, the business of certain it companies is reduced or certain sectors are closed down when they lose certain market shares. in such a situation, many workers lose their jobs, especially in large companies. an additional problem faced by these workers is the lack of competence to compete in the labour market. this is why i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund should help it workers to acquire the necessary skills and find new jobs more easily. by enhancing the skills of eu citizens' workers, we are directly investing in the competitiveness of the entire it sector of the european union, which is facing increasing competition in the world, especially in asian countries.
written. ‒ finland has submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies at microsoft (microsoft mobile oy) (this situation is a result of the collapse of nokia, which sold its mobile phone business to microsoft). the commission has adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers declared redundant in microsoft and in eight of its suppliers and downstream producers in finland. it refers to the 1441 workers declared redundant. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 5 364 000 for the application submitted by finland. this is the seventh mobilisation of the egf in 2016. eur 22 000 000 has been mobilised so far, leaving eur 143 500 000 for this year. the egf shall be mobilised in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is intended to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, by the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or by a new global economic crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. that's why i'm supporting this mobilization.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was created to provide additional assistance to workers directly affected by the consequences of major structural changes. on 11 march 2016, finland submitted an application egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft for a financial contribution following redundancies in microsoft and its eight suppliers and downstream producers in finland. following the evaluation of the applications, the commission has concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution from the egf are met, in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the regulation. the commission notes that the finnish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. the software industry is highly international and competes on a global scale. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that support for workers who have become surplus could play an important role in the revitalisation of the industry if their further education and training and employment prospects are sufficiently supported.
written. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide support for redundant workers in microsoft and its eight suppliers and downstream producers in finland. in order to directly help the dismissed workers, finland has prepared six measures, such as orientation measures, employment and business services, vocational training, wage subsidies, grants for setting up a business and compensation for travel, accommodation and relocation costs. i fully support the measures that create new jobs and growth. however, i do not think that the european globalisation adjustment fund is an effective means of reintegrating workers into the labour market and will not help the finnish economy. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i support this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which relates to the dismissal of 1556 people at telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson in sweden. the surpluses are caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns, and mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund will help the displaced to integrate into the labour market.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request submitted by sweden egf/2016/002 se/ericsson) because i believe that there is a need to help the dismissed ericsson workers, in particular because of the relatively large number of older workers in the stockholm, östra mellansverige, sydsverige and västsverige areas. it provides for the measures to cover 918 of the 1556 workers made redundant who are eligible for a contribution from the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund). the commission notes that the conditions set out in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation are met and that sweden is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 3 957 918 under that regulation, which represents 60% of the total cost of eur 6 596 531, which will enable the return to the labour market of the 918 targeted beneficiaries already mentioned.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. in september this year, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf to assist sweden in the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers in telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson. this is the eighth application submitted for the companies in the computer and electronic and optical products manufacturing sector, and concerns the mobilisation of a total of eur 3 957 918 from the egf for sweden, covering 918 workers who have become redundant. most of the company's growth today is based on software development, and most of the growth in this sector is happening in asia, where ericsson is expanding its operations. this financial assistance shall implement personalised services provided to workers in the process of their care, consisting of counselling and vocational guidance measures, subsidised employment, education and training and assistance in active job search. as the commission has concluded that the conditions for this financial contribution are met in accordance with the provisions of the egf regulation, i have endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in accordance with the request egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. faced with strong competition from asian countries, ericsson was forced to reduce its hardware production and refocus on software production and development. this transition has unfortunately resulted in a technological surplus of 1,556 employees for ericsson. an additional problem faced by these workers is the lack of competence to compete in the labour market. former ericsson workers, although lacking the necessary skills, show a high affinity for the it sector, and it is for this reason that i believe that the resources of the european globalisation adjustment fund should help these workers to acquire the necessary qualifications and find new jobs more easily. by investing in their development, we are also investing in the development of the eu's it sector, which faces strong competition and needs strong support to cope with increasing challenges.
written. ‒ sweden has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies at ericsson (telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson) in sweden. the commission has adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by ericsson. the request concerns 918 workers who were declared redundant. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 3 957 918 for the application submitted by sweden. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is intended to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, by the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or by a new global economic crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the egf in the member states and in third countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was created to provide additional assistance to workers directly affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 31 march 2016, sweden submitted an application egf/2016/002 se/ericsson for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in ericsson in sweden. following the evaluation of the applications, the commission has concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution from the egf are met, in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the regulation. the events that led to the above-mentioned redundancies are the total and partial closure of production lines for telecommunications equipment at various ericsson facilities, and the complete closure of the factory in the town of katrineholm. the claim relates to 1,556 employees of ericsson who were laid off. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that support for workers who have become surplus could play an important role in the revitalisation of the industry if their further education and training and employment prospects are sufficiently supported.
written. ‒ i voted against the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by sweden for the redundancies of ericsson workers. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. it is clear that the proposed measures will not help the recovery of the swedish economy or maintain production in the member states of the european union. in order to achieve this, it is necessary to create favourable conditions for retaining and attracting large producers in the european union, which can be achieved by reducing bureaucracy and lowering taxes.
written. - i support the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikis because it would put an end to a lengthy legal procedure. the request for waiver of immunity was submitted after 20 years, which indicates the inefficiency of the judicial justice systems. therefore, i believe that mr. grammatikakis will have the opportunity to prove his arguments before the court regarding the alleged criminal offense of failure to comply with certain legal obligations.
written. ‒ the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis was submitted by the prosecutor of the supreme court of greece, for breach of duty in the period 2000-2002. the prosecutor has filed this request so that the representative can be tried for abuse of office, due to decisions made in the senate of the university during the time he was acting as rector of the university. although surprised by the decision of the greek judiciary to prosecute the alleged events after 20 years, parliament approves the request for the waiver of the member's immunity at the request of the member grammatikakis himself, in order to be able to access this judicial process. for all of the above, i have endorsed this report.
written. ‒ the request for waiver of immunity was forwarded on 1 april 2016 by the deputy chief prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic in relation to the proposed procedure for breach of trust, together with other persons, in the exercise of their duties in rethymno (crete) in the period 2000-2002. the rapporteur is surprised that the request for waiver of immunity has been made now, after 20 years, and that the greek judicial system has not been able to initiate proceedings in the meantime. since the proceedings were initiated at the initiative of my colleague grammatikakis, i support the decision to waive immunity. the proposed initiation of the procedure is not linked to the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, but to the former function of rector of the senate of the university of crete.
written. ‒ members of the european parliament shall enjoy in the territory of their own member state immunity equivalent to that accorded to members of the parliament of that state. in the case of greece, a member may not be criminally prosecuted, arrested or detained or subjected to any other measure restricting his or her liberty without the prior consent of parliament for the duration of his or her term of office. the greek judicial authorities propose to initiate criminal proceedings against giorgos grammatikakis for breach of trust. i support the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, at his own request, requested by the chief state counsel of the supreme court of the hellenic republic, in order to end this lengthy judicial procedure for the allegedly committed crime.
written. ‒ i supported the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis in relation to his alleged misconduct at the meeting of the council of the university of crete on 8 march 1996, when mr grammatikakis was rector of that university. the discussion during the meeting concerned the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance policy, as an addition to the compulsory insurance policy, for all employees of the university of crete and the alleged illegal payments during the period 2000-2002. since it can be concluded from the foregoing that the proceedings against mr grammatikakis are not related to his position as a member of the european parliament but to his position as rector of the council of the university of crete, as mr grammatikakis himself has confirmed, i consider that his immunity may be waived provided that he is given a fair and impartial trial.
written. ‒ i support this report on legal aid for suspects and accused persons and for wanted persons in european arrest warrant proceedings. despite some shortcomings, this is a positive step for the european union and the rule of law. common minimum standards (such as the right to a free lawyer in the issuing country/the country to which the european arrest warrant has been issued) must now be implemented, and we must work to raise the standard and further consolidate the procedural, fundamental and defence rights guaranteed to those who are accused or suspected by our criminal justice system.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on temporary legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of their liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings because this new directive provides legal aid to all citizens, not just those who can afford it. all member states of the european union have national legal aid systems, but this directive ensures that all citizens have the same minimum rights wherever they are within the eu. this also strengthens mutual trust between member states in the area of criminal justice systems and enhances the proper application of the european arrest warrant.
written. article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and article 14 of the international covenant on civil and political rights recognize the right to legal aid for persons who lack sufficient resources to pay for it themselves. the purpose of this directive is to ensure the effectiveness of the right of access to a lawyer as established by directive 2013/48/eu of the european parliament and of the council by providing for the financing by member states of the services of a lawyer for suspects or accused persons and for requested persons in surrender proceedings. this directive supports the fundamental rights and principles recognised in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights, including the prohibition of torture, the right to liberty and security, to an effective remedy, to a fair trial, the presumption of innocence and the right of defence. in order to ensure the effectiveness and quality of legal aid, member states must take the necessary measures to ensure that the standard of legal aid services provided is sufficiently high to protect the right to a fair trial. in any event, this directive applies in full when a suspect or accused person is deprived of liberty, irrespective of the stage of the criminal proceedings. this proposal is a step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal for a directive on temporary legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of their liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union should be based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions. the implementation of this principle presupposes that member states have confidence in each other's criminal justice systems, including in the way in which the rights of suspects or accused persons are protected. this is a welcome step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. the right to legal aid is closely linked to the right of access to a lawyer, and for those who lack the necessary financial means, only legal aid can ensure the right of access to a lawyer. it is important that accused persons, suspects or wanted persons receive a certain degree of legal certainty as regards the eligibility criteria. the eligibility criteria set out in the commission recommendation provide clarity but do not result in full harmonisation. this seems justified, as it would simply be impossible and unnecessary to introduce detailed european legislation, given the differences between member states in the costs of legal proceedings.
written. ‒ the commission's proposal is an important step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. the commission proposal is limited, however, to the right to temporary legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of liberty, as well as the right to temporary legal aid and legal aid for requested persons in proceedings based on a european arrest warrant. the most important achievement of parliament is the extension of the directive to all legal aid cases, not just temporary legal aid as proposed by the commission. it is also a great victory for the s&d group which has advocated such an approach. i support the adoption of this report, as we will finally have some rules on legal aid that will apply to all criminal proceedings throughout the eu because at a time when all the focus is on the fight against terrorism, the protection of fundamental human rights must not be forgotten.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ in 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. the right to legal aid is closely linked to the right to a defence. suspects and accused persons who are in a more difficult financial situation should be able to defend themselves through free legal aid. the right to legal aid and a fair trial is also guaranteed by the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for judicial cooperation between member states in criminal matters and for the mutual recognition of judgments and decisions. however, national practices vary from one member state to another. i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. the report is a step closer to achieving the guaranteed minimum level of legal aid and full harmonisation of this issue in all member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe this report is a step in the right direction. the recognition of the same procedural guarantees and rights of suspects in european arrest warrant proceedings is an important step towards building genuine judicial cooperation and enhancing trust between member states. the commission has also been active in the field of judicial cooperation in the past, in particular in the area of the protection of personal data and the protection of privacy. after the introduction of temporary legal aid, we can expect a significant shift towards better cooperation, which will undoubtedly lead to a strengthening of mutual trust, which i wholeheartedly support.
written. - i support this report. this is a good example of how the eu is setting global standards in the eradication of torture. the updated rules will help eu authorities to react as quickly as possible to new trends in the development of torture and inhuman treatment. in recent years, we have seen a change in eu practice lead to the abolition of the death penalty in many partner countries, such as the united states. i think this is a good basis for continuing that trend once the regulation comes into force.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending the council regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, because i am strongly opposed to the death penalty and to all forms of torture. i support technical improvements that will allow for stronger controls and a level playing field across the eu without creating too much administrative burden. this strengthens europe's global role in respecting universal human rights. it is also necessary to improve the export control system to make it flexible and adaptable to technological change and development, but it is also important to take into account the complexity of external trade transactions and to monitor the implementation of member states' obligations.
‒ regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through controls on objects and activities used for, or which could be misused for, the execution of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it is important to ensure an appropriate combination of eu legislative, administrative and judicial practice in preventing and prohibiting the production, trade and use of goods that could be used for capital punishment or other cruel treatment. the eu must step up its efforts to eradicate torture by reducing the availability of such equipment, by promoting adequate controls beyond its borders, and it is also essential to ensure controls on exports of military equipment, firearms and goods for torture and inhuman treatment. it is necessary to introduce a targeted end-use clause in order to stop member states from transferring items intended for the execution of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. member states shall encourage the promotion of best practices among technical assistance providers in order to make a positive contribution to the fight against torture. the eu must update the checklists in a timely manner, including all such facilities, appliances and equipment that may be placed on the market. i believe that a balance needs to be struck between the controls, the public interest and the possible misuse of certain products, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, as it shows above all the eu's concern to prevent to the maximum extent possible the adverse effects of products produced in the eu. the execution of the death penalty, torture and inhuman treatment are just some of the purposes for which eu products may be used, which is contrary to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and not only that, but also in stark contrast to respect for human dignity and human rights. this regulation introduces some novelty in relation to the council regulation and thus fills its shortcomings. the regulation prohibits brokering services related to those goods where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that those goods could be used for those undesirable purposes. it also provides that any export of goods requires the authorisation of the competent authorities. these two examples show that the eu does everything in its power to prevent any form of inhuman treatment.
written. ‒ the proposal for the revised regulation contains many changes aimed at further contributing to the abolition of the death penalty in the world and the prevention of torture through eu control and prohibition of exports of goods that can be used for torture or capital punishment. the ep wants to further widen the scope of the revised regulation by its amendments. the main amendments to the text proposed by the commission concern: the prohibition of the movement of goods (meaning the transport of goods listed in the annexes, which are not from the union, their destination is outside the union, but which pass through the customs territory of the eu), the prohibition of commercial advertising and promotion of goods listed in the annexes, the prohibition of the provision of training or the transfer of knowledge or skills that could be used for the purpose of execution, torture and other forms of ill-treatment, the introduction of a comprehensive clause on the basis that it will be necessary and even the authorisation of exports of goods not listed in the annexes if they are intended for the needs of capital punishment, torture and other inhuman treatment. the eu has already achieved positive results in reducing the death penalty in partner countries and the entry into force of this regulation continues the eu's fight to abolish the death penalty and prohibit torture at global level even more effectively.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ anti-torture regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 is a single legal instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling objects and activities that are or may be used for capital punishment, torture or punishment. it consists of a prohibition on trade in disposable instruments of torture and death and related technical aids, as well as authorisation systems for multi-purpose items that could be misused for torture or death. as external trade becomes increasingly complex, it is important to establish as effective as possible controls, checks, penalties and diversions, which are carried out at member state level but also at union level. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. therefore, i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
written. ‒ i voted to amend the regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the objective of this regulation is to abolish the death penalty in the world and to prevent the torture of persons by stopping the transfer of objects which have no practical purpose other than the execution of a death sentence or torture. one of the provisions of the regulation is that the competent authorities of the member states shall not grant an authorisation if there is a justified reason to believe that the goods could be used for capital punishment or torture. i consider that the coordination group on combating torture, established by this regulation, is necessary above all to establish direct cooperation between competent authorities and to achieve an effective exchange of information on administrative practices.
written. ‒ i support this report on the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china, on the basis of which the ep is consulted on whether to give its consent to a strategic agreement between europol and the people's republic of china, which includes the exchange of information but not personal data.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision authorising the european police office (europol) to conclude the strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol (08364/2016 c8-0217/2016 2016/0808 ((cns)) following the position of the alde group in the european parliament.
written. ‒ the council has the power to approve international cooperation agreements, which may include the exchange of strategic, operational and confidential information. the commission has also received a request from the ministry of justice of the people's republic of china to amend the list of persons subject to criminal sanctions by adding the names of the persons subject to criminal sanctions to the list of persons subject to criminal sanctions. it also involves the exchange of specific knowledge, reporting and information on new methods and research processes and cooperation in investigations. there are clear needs and benefits of establishing cooperation between europol and china, as china is an increasingly important actor in the international fight against organised crime, illegal migration, trafficking in human beings and cybercrime. i supported this report and the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement with china, as it would allow the fight against organised crime and contribute to improving international cooperation on this issue.
written. ‒ i support the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with china, as it would help in the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international police cooperation. according to europol, china is an increasingly important source, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime, such as illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, money laundering, intellectual property rights infringement, sports corruption, as well as cyber crime and money laundering. in addition, china is home to several highly influential organized crime groups. this proposal concerns the proposed approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the exchange of information between the member states and the commission. the exchange of information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training and advisory activities as well as support in individual criminal investigations.
written. ‒ in the consultation procedure, parliament was asked to accept the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. the strategic cooperation agreement excludes the exchange of personal data. the parties agree to cooperate in the exchange of information on the implementation of the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide. the operational need for cooperation between europol and china exists given the increasing importance of china as a source, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime, including: illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, euro counterfeiting, infringement of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, as well as activities related to cybercrime and money laundering. i accept this agreement, but the question arises why the conclusion of such agreements is being rushed ahead of the early entry into force of the new europol regulation which gives greater powers to parliament.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ a council decision, after consulting the european parliament, approves the conclusion of an agreement on international cooperation between europol and third countries, including the exchange of relevant information and the exchange of personal data. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. given that a number of the most influential organised crime groups originate in china, this approach contributes to the fight against organised crime as well as against illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and other organised crime activities. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft council implementing decision on the conclusion of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement between the european police office (europol) and china, as i believe it will strengthen the fight against organised crime and improve international cooperation in criminal prosecution. i believe that china is an increasingly important country in the fight against organized crime as the source country of many influential criminal groups related to human trafficking, drug-related crime, euro counterfeiting, money laundering, corruption in sports and cybercrime. i would point out that cooperation will be achieved through the exchange of information covering expertise, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and on crime prevention methods, and will not involve the exchange of personal data. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the chinese authorities regarding the alleged violations of the human rights of the victims of the conflict in the region.
written. ‒ i support this resolution on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. the acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and unique achievement that has strengthened the ties between the peoples of the acp and the eu and their parliaments over the past 40 years. i believe that a new structure should be adopted in which those parts of the acquis of the acp countries and the eu which are universal in nature (e.g. respect for human rights and gender equality) will be retained. i also believe that the common framework and regional agreements should be legally binding.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020 because the eu-acp partnership is very relevant given that more than 80% of the world's least developed countries are in acp regions. these countries have shown their commitment to acting together as a group. in order to adapt cooperation to new challenges and to enhance its effectiveness, a new structure should be adopted in which those elements of the acp-eu legal acquis which are inherently universal, such as respect for human rights and gender equality, commitment to human development, good governance and democracy, achievement of the rule of law and exchange of best practices within a common framework, are retained, while the bulk of the work must be carried out in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. through regional agreements that respond to the specific needs of the regions and the common interests of the eu and the specific region. in order to continue and improve this successful cooperation, i certainly support this report.
written. ‒ development, trade and political cooperation between the european union and the acp member states is based on the cotonou partnership agreement, signed on 23 june 2000. since that agreement became the basis for cooperation between the eu and the acp group, there have been major changes in the political and economic context of both regions. in order to increase the effectiveness of the new agreements, a new structure is needed that will preserve the legacy of the previous agreement while allowing room for adaptation to new political and economic conditions. the main partnership activities must be carried out within the framework of regional agreements, which are adapted to the specific regional needs and shared interests of the eu and the specific regions within the acp group. the renewed cooperation between the eu and the acp group must be based on a partnership of equals. cooperation in areas of common interest can be expected to bring economic gains and progress in the preservation of peace, human rights and other factors related to progress. the future agreement must ensure policy coherence for the achievement of sustainable development and identify the fight against inequality and poverty as key features and objectives of the partnership. in line with previous statements on the importance of renewing and restructuring cooperation with the acp group, i supported this report.
written. ‒ cooperation between the acp states and the eu is a valuable and unique achievement that has strengthened the ties between the acp countries and the eu and their parliaments over the past 40 years. in order to adapt cooperation to new challenges and to enhance its effectiveness, a new structure should be adopted in which those elements of the acp-eu acquis which are universal in nature, such as the commitment to human rights, good governance and democracy, the achievement of the rule of law objective and the exchange of best practices within a common framework, will be retained. cooperation should be pursued in areas of common interest where mutual benefit can be expected, not only in economic terms but also in terms of peace and security, human rights, good governance and democracy, environmental protection and the fight against climate change and other areas related to the well-being of the acp and eu populations. the parties shall cooperate to ensure that the implementation of the agreement is consistent with the objectives of the union's 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the objectives of the union's 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and to ensure that the implementation of the agreement is consistent with the objectives of the union's 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the objectives of the union's 2030 agenda for sustainable development. i therefore supported this report because it will adapt our cooperation to new challenges and contribute to its improvement as well as to the preservation of stability.
written. ‒ the main objective of the cotonou agreement is to 'reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp states into the global economy'. more than 80% of the world's least developed countries are in acp regions, accounting for about 2% of world gdp. the new agreement must first be a political project. i call for the establishment of an effective post-cotonou cooperation framework that is adapted to new and upcoming global changes, based on the responsibilities of the acp countries, a move away from a donor-recipient mindset. the fight against poverty and inequality, as well as the promotion of sustainable development, must remain the main objectives of cooperation. the new cooperation agreement should be given a strong parliamentary dimension through the work of the joint parliamentary assembly. further cooperation with other partners and stakeholders is also needed whenever possible. existing (sub) regional organisations and regional strategies and agreements should be taken into account, and the inclusion of additional countries, such as north african countries, should be allowed. in particular, relations with the african union can be further deepened. the partnership agreement is crucial for the acp governments to improve the overall performance of their economies.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, signed in cotonou in june 2000, aims at development, political, economic and trade cooperation with a common institutional framework and a large budget through the european development fund. the need to eradicate poverty and gradually integrate the acp into the global economy is further underlined by the fact that more than 80% of the world's least developed countries are located in acp regions. the establishment of the most effective framework for cooperation is important in order to promote the strategic interests and shared values of the partners while respecting human rights and promoting sustainable development. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on sustainable development in the acp states. i support the report of the development committee on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020.
written. ‒ i agree that cooperation between the acp states and the eu is a valuable and unique achievement that has strengthened the ties between the acp countries and the eu and their parliaments over the last 40 years. the agreement is also the most comprehensive agreement between developing countries and the european union, covering 79 african, caribbean and pacific countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-u.s. strategy for the middle east and north africa (seafta) and the implementation of the eu-u.s. strategy for the middle east and north africa (seafta) in order to ensure that the eu and the countries concerned are able to meet the challenges of the region. in this regard, the rapporteur identifies three segments as crucial - political dialogue, development assistance and economic and trade cooperation. while i support the efforts of the rapporteur to eradicate the donor-recipient mentality, i cannot agree with the calls to emphasise the importance of legally binding sustainability provisions and the calls to not jeopardise development aid for its beneficiaries and to rely on fresh funds alone for migration-related initiatives, as i do not consider this to be realistic or proportionate. that is why i abstained.
madam president, let me first of all express my solidarity with the greek people, who at this moment bear a great deal of responsibility for the migrant crisis and for all that greece has done and is doing in this case, which is important for the whole of europe. however, let me say that i am a little disappointed in this discussion. it is the euro, it is the imf, it is new democracy, it is cyprus. everyone is guilty... of a little self-criticism, my dear friends. i come from croatia and i know very well how some things can be displayed in our most beautiful balkan peninsula. let's be a little self-critical. let's just say we've been living maybe too well for too long, not quite based to the full on real economic indicators. i think if we put our hand on our heart, greece has a great chance and we must stand by it, but on a realistic basis.
calais is one of the focal points of europe's migrant crisis, and for years has been a gathering place for those refugees and migrants trying to cross the english channel and enter the uk. the site is at the centre of political debate in both france and britain, and is a symbol of the poor conditions in which thousands of people live. there are currently about 10,000 people in the migrant camp who have fled war and poverty here waiting for the opportunity to make their way to the uk. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by member states on the safety of passengers in the union by taking into account the impact of the measures taken by member states on the safety of passengers in the union. local residents, travelers using local ports and tunnels are unhappy with the current situation because it makes it difficult to regularise travel and even the safety of travel as some migrants have started using violent methods to fight for their rights. i am concerned about the current situation and call for a swift solution to this problem so that all parties can lead normal lives: unhindered travel for passengers and assistance to migrants in all the necessary forms.
written. the european parliament is very suspicious of the ec proposal. the clauses under which an operator has the right to exclude free roaming are rather vague. the possibility remains that an operator starts charging a higher roaming price without the user having had a chance to explain his side of the story. the phone bill is one of the most important monthly expenses of our citizens and we cannot leave it at the mercy of the operators.
mr president, a few weeks ago we were talking about the state of the union here and we said that the union was in shambles: true, but not in danger. after brexit, after the recent referendum in hungary, after the attitude towards ceta and ttip, i understand that insecurity is being born. however, the fact is that it is not easy to reconcile the interests of 28 countries, and we must do everything to open all the issues. these announced topics migration, external relations and trade agreements are general topics. i believe that all matters will be opened up at the council. these days we cannot sit by and watch the tragedy unfolding in aleppo, and i agree with mr. hokmark who says that russia clearly does not want an alliance for peace. this is a big problem. we also don't use the tools that we have at our disposal. we have frontex, we have the european coast and border guard, we have the agreement between the european union and turkey. we've brought all of this here, but we're not implementing it enough. yesterday we showed that we are able to ratify the paris agreement, which means that the european union has enough potential to respond with a global solution to a global challenge. so this is an appeal from us here in parliament to the heads of state not to react one way when they are at home and another way when they are in brussels. so we must pursue a consistent policy, and i am in favour of opening up all the issues and of the european union not giving up its four fundamental freedoms and being united and trying to respond to the challenges that have been facing us in recent years.
written. ‒ i support this statement of accession of peru to the hague convention, which protects children in legal uncertainty. the report aims to allow austria and romania to accept the accession of peru to the convention, which will allow the convention to enter into force between peru and the whole eu, given that all other eu member states have given their consent.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, peru's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as this allows the two countries mentioned to accept peru's accession. the entry into force of the convention between peru and the eu is of particular importance because many european citizens are of peruvian origin. it is essential that the problem of child abduction be addressed at the international level and that the applicable laws and courts be those of the child's country of residence. i consider it necessary for parliament to approve the proposal without amendment and therefore i support this report.
written. ‒ this convention has been ratified by all eu member states and introduces a system of cooperation to address cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to address such situations at the international level, establishing the jurisdiction of courts and the applicability of the law and a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the eu has exclusive competence to deal with these issues. following the accession of peru to the convention, the council decisions need to be approved by the two member states which have not yet approved the accession, namely austria and romania. this will allow the convention between peru and the whole of the european union to enter into force, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ preventing child abduction is an important part of the eu's policy to promote the rights of the child, and the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 was adopted to this end. the european union is actively working at international level to promote its application and encourages third countries to accede to it. the convention was signed on the basis of the protocol of accession of peru to the convention on the protection of the marine environment of the world oceans and of the international convention for the safety of life at sea (icesl) and on the basis of the protocol of accession of peru to the convention on the protection of the marine environment of the world oceans and of the international convention for the safety of life at sea (icesl). in 2011, the commission adopted eight proposals for council decisions with a view to accepting the accession of eight countries to this hague convention. the court of justice of the european union stated in 2014 that acceptance of the accession of a third country to the convention is the exclusive competence of the european union. following that decision, the council of the european union adopted seven decisions in 2015 based on the 2011 proposals. this proposal takes into account a third country (peru) which acceded to the convention before the establishment of the external jurisdiction of the eu. respecting the rights of the child as one of the fundamental issues of eu policy and with a desire to remain consistent in the implementation of our decisions, i support this proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, peru's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
written. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is the instrument that primarily addresses the problem of international child abductions following parental separation or divorce, especially when the mother and father are from different countries. in practice, courts in both countries often claim jurisdiction and make different decisions, thus putting children in a position of legal uncertainty. this convention seeks to address this problem at the international level by determining that the courts and applicable laws are those of the child's country of residence. the convention also establishes a system to guarantee the prompt return of abducted children. the convention has been ratified by all eu member states. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court, but the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and therefore the eu must give all member states the power to accept the accession of a new member to the convention. in the event of peru's accession to the convention, a council decision is required to enable austria and romania to accept peru's accession thereby allowing the convention between peru and the whole of the european union to enter into force. all other member states have given their consent to peru's accession to the convention. i support this report because the aim of such a convention is to be ratified by as many countries as possible, thereby making it more effective.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument, ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among states parties to address cases of international child abduction, which often occurs when the child's parents are separated. the most common problem is the bias of individual national legal systems and the jurisdiction of the courts in both countries. following peru's accession to the convention, a council decision is needed to allow the two member states that have not yet accepted peru's accession, austria and romania, to do so, given that many eu citizens are of peruvian origin. i support the draft report of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
written. ‒ i supported peru's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the accession of peru to the convention will enable two member states, austria and romania, to accept peru as one of the states signatories to the convention. the convention is particularly useful in addressing the problem of international child abduction, as national courts are often biased in cases of parental divorce. the convention establishes a system of cooperation to address that problem at international level. as many eu citizens are of peruvian origin, i believe that peru's accession will reduce the number of unsolved cases and allow for the urgent return of abducted children.
written. ‒ i support this statement on kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention, which protects children in legal uncertainty. the report aims to allow member states (except denmark, which is not concerned, and the netherlands, which has already given its consent) to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, which will allow the convention to enter into force between kazakhstan and the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as this would allow all member states, except denmark and the netherlands, to accept kazakhstan's accession. given that kazakhstan's readiness to implement the convention has been established, i consider it necessary for parliament to approve the proposal without amendments. the abduction of children must be a priority for the international community, as must the guarantee of the immediate return of abducted children. i also support kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention.
written. ‒ the purpose of the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is to establish a system of cooperation between states to address such cases at the international level. international child abductions most often occur when the child's parents are separated and come from different countries. the accession of kazakhstan to this convention is commendable and requires acceptance by all member states before its entry into force. since i consider it desirable that this convention between the european union and kazakhstan enters into force, i have supported this report.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. respecting children's rights as one of the fundamental issues of eu policy and with the desire to remain consistent in the implementation of our decisions, this is one of the necessary steps in that direction. the prevention of child abduction is an important part of the eu's policy to promote the rights of the child, and the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 was adopted to this end. the european union is actively working at international level to promote its application and encourages third countries to accede to it. in 2011, the commission adopted eight proposals for council decisions with a view to accepting the accession of eight countries to this hague convention. the republic of kazakhstan has not yet deposited its instrument of accession to the convention. the court of justice of the european union stated in 2014 that acceptance of the accession of a third country to the convention is the exclusive competence of the european union. following that decision, the council of the european union adopted seven decisions in 2015 based on the 2011 proposals. this proposal takes into account a third country (kazakhstan) which acceded to the convention before the establishment of the external jurisdiction of the eu.
written. ‒ in the event of kazakhstan acceding to the convention, a council decision is required to enable member states (except denmark, which is not subject to union civil law, and the netherlands, which has already accepted kazakhstan's accession) to accept kazakhstan's accession. the union and kazakhstan have agreed to cooperate in the implementation of the convention. the commission and civil law experts from the member states have assessed that kazakhstan is ready to implement the convention. i support this report because the aim of such a convention is to be ratified by as many countries as possible, thereby making it more effective.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument, ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among states parties to address cases of international child abduction, which often occurs when the child's parents are separated. the most common problem is the bias of individual national legal systems and the jurisdiction of the courts in both countries. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention requires a council decision enabling the member states to accept the accession of kazakhstan in order for the convention to enter into force between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. i support the draft report of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction as the commission, together with civil law experts from the member states, considered it desirable for the convention between the european union and kazakhstan to enter into force. the problems of international child abduction arise when parents from different countries divorce and one parent takes a child to his or her own country without the consent of the other parent. in such cases, most national courts are biased and often the courts in both countries are declared competent. i support the fact that this convention resolves the problem at the international level by declaring the court of the child's country of residence competent and by introducing a system that guarantees the prompt return of abducted children.
written. ‒ i support this statement on south korea's accession to the hague convention, which protects children in legal uncertainty. the report aims to allow member states (except denmark, which is not concerned, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already given their consent) to accept the accession of south korea to the convention, which will allow the convention to enter into force between south korea and the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as this would allow all member states, with the exception of denmark, the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, to accept the accession of south korea. it has been established that the legal system of south korea meets certain conditions and criteria and it is therefore desirable that the convention enter into force. it is essential that the problem of child abduction be addressed at the international level and that the applicable laws and courts be those of the child's country of residence. the more countries that sign the convention, the more effective it is, and that is why i support this report.
written. ‒ the hague convention is an important instrument ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to address cases of international child abduction. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple have different nationalities, and the biggest problem in such cases is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. the convention aims to address such situations at the international level, establishing the jurisdiction of courts and the applicability of laws, and establishing a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the parties shall endeavour to ensure that the provisions of this convention are applied in a manner consistent with the principles of non-discrimination and non-discrimination. the functioning of the judicial system in south korea is ready for the implementation of this convention, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ respecting the rights of the child as one of the fundamental issues of eu policy and with a desire to remain consistent in the implementation of our decisions, i supported this proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. as the prevention of child abduction is an important part of the eu's policy to promote the rights of the child, the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 was adopted to this end. the european union is actively working at international level to promote its application and encourages third countries to accede to it. therefore, in 2011, the commission adopted eight proposals for council decisions with a view to accepting the accession of eight countries to this hague convention. the republic of korea has deposited its instrument of accession to the convention only in 2012. the court of justice of the european union stated in 2014 that acceptance of the accession of a third country to the convention is the exclusive competence of the european union. following that decision, the council of the european union adopted seven decisions in 2015 based on the 2011 proposals. this proposal takes into account a third country (korea) which acceded to the convention before the eu's external competence was established and i therefore welcome the decision taken.
written. ‒ in the event of south korea's accession to the convention, a council decision is required to enable member states (except denmark, which is not subject to union civil law, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted south korea's accession) to accept south korea's accession. this will allow the convention between south korea and the whole of the european union to enter into force. the commission and civil law experts from the member states have assessed that south korea is ready to implement the convention. i support this report because the aim of such a convention is to be ratified by as many countries as possible, thereby making it more effective.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument, ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among states parties to address cases of international child abduction, which often occurs when the child's parents are separated. the most common problem is the bias of individual national legal systems and the jurisdiction of the courts in both countries. following the accession of south korea to the convention, a council decision is required to enable member states to accept the accession of south korea so that the convention enters into force between south korea and the whole of the european union. in the context of this report, it is important to emphasise that there is a large korean community in the european union. i therefore support the draft report of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of south korea's accession to the hague convention on civil aspects of justice, as the european union has exclusive external competence in this area and member states can no longer act alone. the convention will enter into force between south korea and all member states of the european union upon acceptance of accession. the problem of international child abduction occurs mostly in cases where parents are separated or divorced and have dual nationality. if the parent in such a situation takes the child to his or her own state, the national courts in both states shall have jurisdiction and shall give a biased decision. by acceding to this convention, states accept the jurisdiction of the court of the state in which the child is domiciled and guarantee the prompt return of the abducted children. since there is a large korean community in the european union, this accession of south korea will be of great benefit to both the member states of the european union and south korea.
written. ‒ i support this report which stresses the importance of achieving sustainable development, aimed at ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030. i believe that the european commission, the council, the member states and the international community, as well as the governments of developing countries, must take immediate action to combat all forms of malnutrition and to mobilise long-term financial investment for food, food security and sustainable agriculture and to improve food and nutrition security through improved governance and accountability.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled after the question for an oral answer (b8-0717/2016) pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on the next steps for the achievement of the eu's global targets and commitments related to food and food security in the world (2016/2705 ((rsp)) as a coordinated action among global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and other actors is needed to meet sustainable development goal 2 of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development on the eradication of hunger. the eu, member states and the international community, as well as developing country governments, need to mobilise immediate long-term financial investment in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture and enhance food security. on the other hand, the situation where one third of the world's food - some 1.3 billion tons - is thrown away urgently needs to be changed. i also stress the need for the commission to support small farmers in the implementation of innovative, more productive agricultural practices which also meet the criteria of adaptation to climate change and are based on agro-ecology.
written. ‒ while many europeans take food security for granted, we must bear in mind that it is not a problem of the past, nor is it exclusive to developing countries. i support the sustainable development goal, which aims to eradicate hunger and malnutrition by 2030, by increasing the productivity of smallholder farmers, by achieving sustainable agricultural and food systems that are resilient to climate change, capable of feeding the world's population. it is our responsibility to provide citizens with sufficient, safe and healthy food at affordable prices. this must be ensured while maintaining the competitiveness of the european agricultural sector and protecting the farmers' living standards. malnutrition is a serious public health problem even in affluent lands, where people do not get enough of the vitamins and minerals needed for growth, function, and health, as well as for fighting disease. the rise in obesity in europe is also a cause for concern, with an estimated half of adults and one third of children in the eu being overweight. so i think we need to have actions and information programmes to promote nutrition and healthy eating, especially for children for whom healthy eating is of crucial importance. i supported this resolution, among other reasons, because i believe that the responsible use of resources for food production can contribute to the well-being of the eu's population and contribute to the improvement of environmental and climate conditions at global level.
written. ‒ food and food security is one of the greatest global challenges. the fact that today, in the 21st century, 795 million people (one in nine persons) are undernourished is devastating, and 161 million children worldwide are stunted by chronic malnutrition, 3.1 million of whom die each year. the objective of sustainable development is to eradicate hunger and reduce unhealthy diets by 2030 by increasing the productivity of smallholders, and by achieving sustainable agricultural and food systems resilient to climate change. but on the other hand, the importance of sustainable agricultural and rural development, responsible and climate-sensitive investments in the agricultural sector and the role of small producers are still being neglected, and i believe that these are the areas that need to be re-emphasised and highlighted. it is essential to improve the relationship between people and their physical environment in order to integrate the three dimensions of sustainable development - economic, social and environmental. if done right, agriculture, forestry, and fisheries can provide healthy food for all and generate decent incomes while supporting people focused on rural development and environmental protection. so i am hereby calling for specialisation in the green technology and eco-entrepreneurship sectors to address this problem as soon as possible.
written. ‒ with the world's population expected to reach 8.5 billion by 2030, the goal of sustainable development and related tasks is to eradicate hunger and malnutrition. coordinated and rapid action among global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and private actors, including scientific and industrial research bodies, and among donors is therefore of the utmost importance, in particular with regard to reinvestment in local food production targeting mainly small producers and agro-ecological practices, the achievement of sustainable agricultural and food systems resilient to climate change in order to feed the world's population, while protecting biodiversity. however, i cannot support this motion for a resolution because i think it is not well designed, and i cannot agree with article 13 in particular, which calls for the abolition of public incentives for the production of biofuels from crops, which is contrary to the principles of our group.
written. ‒ although considerable progress has been made in improving global food security, the total number of chronically undernourished people remains unacceptable. that is why i think it is right that the eradication of hunger has become one of the priorities of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. i also believe that among the most important elements of the fight against the agriculture action plan is to encourage responsible private sector involvement and to learn from inclusive business models. this resolution encourages the increase of smallholder productivity and the achievement of sustainable agricultural and food systems, and recognises rural transformation as a key process for creating jobs, increasing incomes and achieving long-term food and nutrition security. i believe that through the proposed integration of the countries most affected by hunger into global trade and by keeping food security and nutrition at the heart of global and national policies, progress will be made in the fight against malnutrition. that's why i voted for this resolution.
written. ‒ i support this report on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. the council has worked slowly but steadily on the text for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. unfortunately, the moves in the council have created concern, both within the european parliament and the commission. the main problems relate to the independence, efficiency and effectiveness of the public prosecutor's office, so that support for the establishment of this office cannot be unconditional.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust because i believe it is crucial to protect the financial interests of the union in the best and most efficient way. it is estimated that fraud affecting the eu's financial interests amounts to approximately eur 3 billion each year. the european public prosecutor's office should be an independent and effective body with clear powers in order to deal with the problem of fraud in the same way in all member states. it is, however, necessary to clarify the relationship between eurojust and the eppo in order to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities. however, i consider it necessary to further clarify the competences of the european public prosecutor's office and to improve cross-border prosecutions.
written. ‒ article 86 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the council may, by regulation, establish a european public prosecutor's office to combat criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union. it is important that the eu effectively detects and prosecutes fraud affecting the financial interests of the union, thereby protecting taxpayers in all member states. eurojust facilitates coordination and cooperation between national investigative and law enforcement authorities and helps to build mutual trust between the different legal systems and traditions in the eu. it also facilitates the execution of requests for cooperation and the application of mutual recognition instruments, thereby improving cross-border prosecutions. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to provide the necessary legal assistance to the european public prosecutor's office in order to ensure that the european public prosecutor's office is able to effectively prosecute the criminal offences referred to in this directive. this would reduce the current fragmentation in the efforts of law enforcement authorities to protect the eu budget and strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. i support the work of eurojust as it serves to increase the efficiency of the work of national investigating and enforcement authorities in the prosecution of serious cross-border and organised crime so that perpetrators can be brought to justice quickly and successfully. eurojust's vision is to be an important partner and centre of expertise at the judicial level for effective measures against cross-border organised crime in the european union. eurojust was established with the aim of encouraging and improving coordination and cooperation between national judicial authorities in the prosecution of serious cross-border crime in the european union. each of the 28 member states shall designate one high representative to eurojust, with its seat in the hague. i think it's a good idea to have representatives who are experienced state attorneys, judges or police officers with equivalent powers. they shall jointly fulfil the role of eurojust by supporting coordination between national authorities at all stages of criminal prosecution. in addition, they address the challenges and practical problems arising from differences between the legal systems of individual member states. it is good and certainly useful that eurojust houses the secretariats of the european judicial network, the european network on genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes and the joint investigation teams network.
written. ‒ the developments in the council regarding the text of the proposal for a european public prosecutor's office are of concern to both parliament and the commission. the purpose of this resolution is to express parliament's concern about the direction of the proposed text and to put pressure on the council to take account of some of parliament's proposals. the council may, in accordance with a special legislative procedure, establish the office of the european public prosecutor, but it shall act unanimously after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. it is necessary to conclude the negotiations on the pif directive (directive on the fight against fraud to the union's financial interests by means of criminal law) which will determine the criminal offences for which the eppo will have jurisdiction before seeking parliament's consent to the eppo. i also consider that the scope of the pif directive, and thus of the public prosecutor's office, should also cover vat fraud. the eppo should be able to exercise its powers of investigation and prosecution in accordance with the applicable law. since the report includes those comments, i support its adoption.
written. ‒ the treaty of lisbon (tfeu) extends the instruments for protecting the eu's financial interests. the council regulation of 17 december 2016 on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office (oj l 84, 28.3.2016, p. eurojust shall serve the coordination and cooperation between member states in investigations and prosecutions. the particular importance of the fight against financial fraud in the eu is evident from the data published by the commission during 2014. in the eu, €159.5 billion was lost due to unpaid value added tax (vat) revenues. i support the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust because i believe that the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office would take the fight against crimes against the eu's financial interests to a higher and more effective level than the one currently in place. the objective of enhanced cooperation between the authorities of the member states involved in criminal prosecution is to protect the taxpayers of the member states and the eu budget.
written. ‒ this resolution was drafted in response to two oral questions put by libe to the council and the commission on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office (eppo). the european public prosecutor is conceived as an independent union body with the authority to investigate and prosecute cases of fraud at union level, and in other cases affecting the financial interests of the union. the current situation is such that only national prosecutors of individual member states have the right to investigate cases of fraud, and their powers end at their national borders. the existing bodies of the european union (such as olaf, eurojust and europol) do not have, nor can they be given, a mandate to conduct criminal investigations at eu level. the eppo is responsible for the prosecution of all criminal offences, including the most serious crimes of corruption, including money laundering, tax fraud, tax evasion and money laundering. while i support the call for a clear distinction to be made in the protection of the union's financial interests between already existing bodies, i voted against it because it strongly opposes a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity, on which the european union is founded, which requires that problems are always dealt with at the lowest possible level, preferably where they arise. the commission considers that the measure is imputable to the state and that it is imputable to the state. i strongly oppose attempts to create a european criminal law.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following statements by the council and the commission under rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases (2016/2891 ((rsp)) given that european industry is in crisis and the problem of closing or realising large industrial plants not only leads to the dismissal of a large number of employees but also to a lack of jobs for a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises which are directly or indirectly linked to large industrial groups and all of which together cause major social problems in certain regions and cities. measures are needed to support the modernisation of industry. the eib's policy as well as that of the future esi funds and the european fund for strategic investments should be oriented and strengthened in this respect. it is necessary to change the tax burdens that directly affect the cost of labour and employment, to link reindustrialisation with labour market policies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. the union needs an overall strategy for a coherent and comprehensive industrial policy aiming at reindustrialisation.
written. - caterpillar has announced a major restructuring plan, which will result in the closure of the gosselies plant and the layoff of 2,500 workers. the board of directors of alstrom also announced the transfer of train production and the closure of the belfort plant, and other layoffs are expected at the companies' plants in spain, italy and northern ireland. these developments confirm the trend of increasing business relocation outside europe, which contributes to the decline in employment in the manufacturing and industrial sectors of many european countries and has a negative impact on the overall economic and social structure. the european industry has a high added value and a recognised level of expertise, but it is currently facing strong global competition from third countries, which export cheaper products to the european market and pursue aggressive policies. europe is a social market economy with the aim of achieving sustainable economic and inclusive growth, and it is therefore necessary to create a comprehensive industrial policy protecting workers in the eu in order to avoid new displacements of production. to this end, it is necessary to accelerate support for projects in the regions most affected by deindustrialisation, to mobilise all funds, in particular the esf and the egf. the union's industrial strategy must be based on digitalisation, sustainability, energy efficiency and promote the importance of skilled workers and the link between research and industry to strengthen the eu's industrial competitiveness, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i consider that the recent announcements by caterpillar and alstom of the planned closures of large industrial plants in europe are a severe blow to their workers and that this decision has a serious impact on the regions in which they operate. unfortunately, one of those companies is alstom croatia from karlovci, croatia. it was announced that the company would lose 229 employees, including 130 engineers. the potential of the employees should not be released to the free market because the best quality employees will be re-employed, but not in croatia or in the eu. such circumstances make it necessary to pursue a targeted policy to find such skilled workers a suitable alternative to employment in the eu. without a proper initiative in this direction, the eu will lose some important parts of its industry, and what is particularly valuable - its know-how, and thus its place in the global market for specialised products with high added value. the first priority at this stage should be to support those directly affected, but also to think long-term, taking due care of the needs and future of european industry. i think that in this way we can send a strong signal about the need to preserve and improve the competitiveness of our industrial economy in the long term with an investment plan for europe.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ in its new strategy for 2012, the commission envisaged a 'new industrial revolution' with the aim of increasing industrial activity to 20% of eu gdp by 2020. however, the negative cases of caterpillar and alstom are examples of the problems faced by european industry where economic growth is still unable to generate improvements in the construction and infrastructure industry, the resource industry and the energy and transport sectors. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament and the council with the information necessary to assess the impact of the union's policies on the environment and the environment, including the impact of the union's policies on the environment, and to provide the european parliament and the council with the information necessary to assess the impact of the union's policies on the environment. i support the motion for a resolution tabled following the statements by the council and the commission under rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases.
written. - this resolution was drafted in response to recent announcements of redundancies at caterpillar and alstom. caterpillar has announced that it will be cutting 10,000 jobs worldwide. the commission also noted that the commission had not provided any evidence that the measures were necessary to restore the viability of the company. at the same time, alstom confirmed that they were ceasing production of trains in eastern france. such resolutions already traditionally express tendentious interventionist positions, which are in direct contradiction with the fundamental principles of the european union, which are aimed at freedom of competition. such attitudes cannot win my support.
mr. president, the syrian people have suffered immense suffering for more than five years in this terrible conflict that continues to rage. hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of displaced people expect a stronger response and concrete action from us. i am particularly concerned about the recent developments in the aleppo area, which indicate a reluctance on the part of the warring parties to accept a peaceful solution to the conflict. the most vulnerable are the ones who suffer - children. or those of a different religious persuasion - christians. the destruction of hospitals, the disruption of humanitarian work and the killing of innocent civilians must stop. it's about living people. the situation in syria is a global problem that the west has been putting off solving. the eu must become more involved in efforts to achieve sustainable peace and take concrete action to address this humanitarian and cultural disaster. it's not enough to send money, food or water. it's important to stop daesh and al-nusra and ensure peace. - today. - what? because tomorrow will be too late.
written. it is now clear that the total chaos in syria is caused by many particular interests not just the conflicting parties. it is disgusting to see cities bombed, and in them hospitals and settlements where innocent children and civilians are killed. attacks on public institutions in damascus and elsewhere are also unacceptable. it is also unacceptable for the eu to be virtually absent from the peace process, which is frozen again, but for eu members to suffer enormous damage from the migrant crisis. even the entire european project has been called into question by the migrant crisis. the eu must continue its peace-building policy and do everything to stop the atrocities.
madam president, the announcement of the passage of a stricter abortion law has upset a large number of polish citizens, many of whom are protesting in the city streets. the responsible authority respects the opinion of all citizens and gives clear answers to their questions and fears, and i am confident that the polish government will do the same in this particular case. a woman's right to choose must be defended. she must have the right to choose when to have sex, she must have the right to choose who to have sex with, and she must have the right to choose between different methods of contraception. if we want a free society, the woman in it must be free to make important decisions that primarily concern her. but each of our freedoms ends where the others begin. a woman's right to choose ends where a child's right to life begins! how to regulate this legally to get the best results is a matter for the member states and the european union has nothing to do with it.
madam president, i do not believe we will have the opportunity to revise the paris agreement when we ratified it in parliament only yesterday, and by a large majority. it was truly a historic event and the eu showed that it is capable of being a leader, of being in the lead when it comes to fighting climate change. it is now up to the member states to ratify it in their parliaments - i hope they will do so as quickly as possible - but it is also up to them to show their action plans to combat climate change. as we heard from mr cañete, there are programmes and external programmes of the european commission for relations with other countries and investments in other countries, and also for relations with our partners. it is not enough for the eu to do its job alone. the paris agreement doesn't make sense then. so the big news is that the united states, china, india and other major powers have already ratified the paris agreement and that it will not remain a dead letter on paper. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the european parliament's delegation to marrakesh, so that it can participate in the adoption of all the necessary regulations. in any case, we remain committed to the targets we have set for 2030, namely to reduce warming by 2°c and greenhouse gas emissions by 40%. we look forward to 2018 as a very important year when we can verify all of this that we're talking about and have a dialogue. i believe that this will be a very important year, but i also believe that mr cañete's mandate will be marked by rapid ratification and that we can be satisfied with what has been done so far. in any case, we expect the implementation and enforcement of everything that is written in the paris agreement.
madam president, the issue of food contact materials is a matter of concern to each of the half a billion eu citizens as they come into contact with them on a daily basis. many citizens buy organic food to avoid pesticides, and the contamination potential of food packaging can be a thousand times greater. the current directive dates from 2004, and in the meantime, science and toxicology have advanced. i therefore consider it necessary to review existing rules and procedures in order to strengthen the common market and better protect public health. serious consideration should be given to the interaction of compounds and chemicals that may be harmless on their own but can cause a reaction in the human body when combined. furthermore, the rules for paper, cardboard, coatings, inks, metals and adhesives should be harmonised. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done and to call on the commission to take the steps suggested in the report as soon as possible.
madam president, as a representative from croatia, i can testify firsthand to the argument that at the state level there is an additional burden on european legislation with a whole series of procedures that consume time and money for citizens and companies. but i cannot agree with the rapporteur that this is the main cause of the rise in euroscepticism. we should not turn a blind eye to the fact that the union is failing in many areas and shift the blame onto the member states. they bear part of the responsibility, but let us not forget that citizens' expectations of supranational level are different and if the union does not justify them, they will lose more and more popularity. the union must be an added value, otherwise we don't need it. in order to ensure that european legislation is widely accepted and well prepared, we must return to genuine subsidiarity. the union should regulate only where necessary to achieve the best results. further interference in the affairs of the state and lower levels of government will only bring us more civil unrest and discontent. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mrs regner, when we joined the eu, we expected the eu to be a rooftop state, a state that helps us, not a state that tells us exactly what we need, when we need it and where we need it. just talking, not being there to help us on our way. so it's one thing to order, it's another to participate with us and lead us. there are many member states, especially post-communist countries, that have been told all along what to do and how to do it, and now all of a sudden they are just being told without any instructions how to do it.
in writing. – i applaud the 2014 report on monitoring the application of eu law, which gives an overview of the actual implementation and practical application of eu law and which is useful because it shows the policy areas which had the most infringement cases. however, the enforcement of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent and thus, perhaps the commission should consider the proposals made by the new working group on administrative law, as they could lead to greater efficiency within the eu's own administrative procedures. i support this report because it is important that we closely monitor the application of eu laws. as vice-chair of the delegation for relations with bosnia and herzegovina, and kosovo, i firmly believe that the parliament should play a more important role in the analysis of how accession countries and countries with association agreements comply with eu laws and that the parliament can play a larger role in developing appropriate support for implementation of eu laws in these countries. therefore, i support the suggestion that parliament draft proper reports on all candidate countries in response to the annual progress reports released by the commission, with the aim to give relevant committees the chance to deliver opinions.
written. ‒ i support this report on international financial reporting standards. as a social democrat, i am in favour of accounting standards that ensure financial stability, sustainable growth and long-term investment. i also support a deep reform of the process of drawing up and certifying accounting standards to ensure transparency and accountability.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on international financial reporting standards (ifrs) 9 (2016/2898 ((rsp)) as ifrs 9 represents one of the main responses of the iasb (international accounting standards board) to the financial crisis, where efforts to implement it are already underway. the ias 39 is a significant improvement over previous standards, particularly in terms of the anticipation of potential credit losses. however, a better assessment of the possible impacts of ifrs 9 on the banking and other financial services sector is needed. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the iasb has also identified a number of issues that are relevant to the application of ifrs 9 and the future insurance standard (ifrs 17). the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to comply with the requirements of the banking code.
written. ‒ international accounting standards (ias) are one of the key components needed for the effective functioning of the internal and capital markets. the use of such instruments should not jeopardise financial stability and should serve the general good, not just the interests of investors, lenders and creditors. the importance and comprehensiveness of these standards require maximum preparation which will not only focus on the desired consequences of their application but will also devote the necessary attention to assessments of other possible impacts on various aspects of the financial system. in this process, the cooperation of the european commission and other bodies involved in these standards, which have already made us aware of the estimates of possible negative impacts of ifrs 9, such as those on long-term investments, is crucial. i consider that the level of involvement of the european parliament in the standard-setting process is not sufficient and i support this resolution which also formally expresses concern about certain shortcomings of the international accounting standards ifrs 9.
written. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) has mandated ifrs 9 as the main response to certain aspects of the financial crisis and its impact on the banking sector. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has analysed in detail the ifrs 9 financial instrument and concluded that it contains important responses of the international accounting standards board to the financial crisis and notes that work on its implementation is already underway. ifrs 9 is an improved version of ias 39. i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
written. ‒ the application of international financial reporting standards (ifrs) in the european union has contributed to strengthening the single market and has strengthened the competitiveness of the european economy by attracting capital and investments in global capital markets. however, the financial crisis in the member states of the european union has highlighted the need to review and improve financial reporting standards. this is why i support the resolution to ensure continued monitoring and oversight of the implementation of mfsi 9, which will enter into force in january 2018. the following paragraphs are added to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article: i believe that the application of the paragraph in the proposed resolution will be an effective response to the financial crisis and the alleged role of accounting standards in causing the crisis.
written. - i support this report on the situation in syria. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the un guidelines on the prevention of and punishment of the crime of genocide and on the implementation of the un guidelines on the prevention of and punishment for the crime of genocide. there is a need for a cessation of hostilities as the last remaining hope to prevent another brutal escalation of war.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria, given the need to find a solution as soon as possible to reduce tensions and to avoid further suffering and new casualties, especially among the civilian population. it is now clear that the total chaos in syria is caused by many particular interests not just the warring parties. it is disgusting to see cities bombed, and in them hospitals and settlements where innocent children and civilians are killed. attacks on public institutions in damascus and elsewhere are also unacceptable. it is also unacceptable for the eu to be virtually absent from the peace process, which is frozen again, but for eu members to suffer enormous damage from the migrant crisis. even the entire european project has been called into question by the migrant crisis. it is necessary to find a peaceful solution as soon as possible and to alleviate the suffering of the syrian people. european diplomacy must continue to ensure that humanitarian aid is now most needed to save lives. we need to involve the us, russia, the countries in the region and of course the eu in the future settlement of the situation in syria in order to find a political solution to the conflict. the eu must continue its peace-building policy and do everything to stop the atrocities.
written. ‒ the eu strongly condemns the escalation of violence in aleppo, the continuous bombardment and siege conditions that further endanger the lives of hundreds of thousands of syrians and hamper the efforts of the international community to provide humanitarian assistance and support a political solution to the conflict. the syrian regime's excessive and disproportionate attacks must be stopped. the eu will continue to do everything in its power to ensure the full implementation of the geneva declaration and relevant un security council resolutions. the eu has also provided financial support to the syrian regime in the form of loans to the syrian government. humanitarian operations in aleppo must serve humanitarian purposes and comply with international humanitarian principles and standards, and not be part of any military strategy. i supported this resolution as i believe it is necessary to continue negotiations to achieve a stable ceasefire and to step up efforts to reach a lasting political settlement in syria.
written. ‒ the difficult situation in syria has recently further deteriorated despite all efforts to reach a peaceful solution. there are attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure all over the country. the fighting has escalated most in the city of aleppo, which has been subjected to heavy bombardment, including attacks on health facilities. we cannot tolerate the current situation where innocent civilians are denied access to basic humanitarian aid and basic health care. i welcome this resolution and the urgent humanitarian initiative of the european union for aleppo as they clearly recognise the importance of normalising the delivery of humanitarian aid, carrying out medical evacuations and providing healthcare to those in need. we are aware of the fact that the european union is one of the largest providers of humanitarian aid to people fleeing the long-running war in syria, but we must also be aware of our responsibilities in reaching a lasting political agreement for peace in syria. i am of the opinion that the eu must cut off all trade and economic relations with the states that fund terrorist groups in syria in order to send a message that it puts human lives first and that it is prepared to do everything to protect them.
written. - the situation has deteriorated dramatically and i am concerned about the lack of international unity making it increasingly difficult to reach a negotiated solution. washington and moscow must find common ground, as must the other participants in the international syria support group. the eu should continue its efforts and collectively, through the work of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, play a more prominent role in mediation. we are one of the largest providers of humanitarian aid to people fleeing the long-running violence and destruction in syria. i deeply regret the attack on the humanitarian convoy and the red crescent warehouse and condemn it unconditionally as a grave and disturbing violation of international humanitarian law and a possible war crime. the perpetrators must be held accountable. i strongly condemn all attacks on civilians and the lack of access to humanitarian aid for the needy syrian people. i express my deep concern at the human suffering in the besieged areas of aleppo city and throughout syria, which affects many women and children. i welcome the eu's urgent humanitarian initiative for aleppo. i call on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to renew efforts to achieve a common eu strategy for syria that seeks to facilitate a political settlement in syria. it is imperative that the conflict, especially the bombing of civilians, be ended as soon as possible and that humanitarian aid be delivered without interruption to all those in need.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ hostilities in syria have escalated again, especially in aleppo, and the situation is deteriorating at every turn. among other things, hospitals and warehouses are bombed, and relief convoys are attacked. the eu can contribute to the settlement of the situation in syria through humanitarian assistance, the promotion of viable negotiations and monitoring of compliance with the ceasefire. the lack of international solidarity makes negotiations difficult, and human rights violations must be stopped urgently. i therefore support the european parliament resolution on the situation in syria, which calls for a renewed ceasefire and condemns the attacks and crimes against civilians, the siege of syrian territory and the lack of humanitarian action and assistance to the victims, in particular the lack of food, drinking water and medicine.
written. ‒ the bloody conflict in syria has left more than 250,000 people dead and 12 million people displaced. what began as another arab spring struggle against autocratic rule has transformed into a brutal war between regional groups, world powers and the terror of the islamic state. the extreme complexity of the situation unfortunately makes it impossible to draw impartial and objective conclusions about the perpetrators of the conflict, which is one of the reasons why, even today, six years after the conflict began, dozens of innocent people are still dying every day. a recent sad example occurred after the united states and russia reached an agreement to end airstrikes in september, which killed at least 248 people, mostly civilians, many of whom were involved in humanitarian efforts after the agreed ceasefire. the situation in syria requires an urgent constructive international engagement without a "figure in the pocket". until that is realized, thousands of innocent people will continue to die in conflicts that show no sign of ending.
written. ‒ i support this question on the un climate change conference. the draft resolution aims to define the european parliament's position with regard to the climate conference to be held in marrakech, morocco, in november. the draft resolution addresses issues such as the urgency of ratifying and implementing the paris agreement, but also the comprehensive effort of all sectors to reduce co2 emissions, etc. i think we all need to work together to balance climate change, to leave a better place for future generations to live in.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled after the question for an oral answer (b8-0718/2016) pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on the implementation of the paris agreement and the un climate change conference to be held in 2016 in marrakech, morocco (cop22) (2016/2814 ((rsp)) as it is practically the last step towards the ratification of the paris agreement and its subsequent implementation. developed countries need to be urged to drastically reduce their greenhouse gas emissions even more than they have committed to. the paris agreement is ambitious, balanced, fair and legally binding, and its adoption marked a decisive shift towards comprehensive and joint global action. on the positive side, the eu is on track to exceed its 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets and to meet the 2020 renewable energy target. the eu has the experience, capacity and global reach to lead the way in building the smarter, cleaner and more resilient infrastructure needed to deliver the global transition spurred by the paris agreement. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the criteria for the selection of the member states and the criteria for the selection of the member states. further efforts are needed to mobilise climate change funds of usd 100 billion by 2020.
written. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the occasion of the un climate change conference to be held in marrakech, morocco, in 2016. the effects of recent climate change are visible in all parts of the world and we are all feeling them today. the urgent need to ratify and implement the paris agreement is a clear commitment by all countries to limit the increase in global average temperature that has occurred since the mid-20th century as a result of human activities. it is our responsibility and duty to future generations to start significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions today. early decarbonisation is necessary to limit the increase in global average temperature to below 2°c, but at the same time it is necessary to continue efforts to limit that increase to 1,5°c. the commission will continue to support the development of the union's energy policy and its policies in the field of climate change, including through the establishment of a european energy union. he will only hold that position if he sets himself sufficiently challenging goals with clear deadlines for achieving them. i support this resolution and stress that the european parliament must have a role in shaping and implementing european climate change policy, which is why i expect the ep to have guaranteed access to all preparatory documents for the upcoming marrakesh conference from the outset.
‒ the ep highlighted as priorities in the resolution: a comprehensive effort by all sectors (the ep warns of emissions linked to land use for agricultural purposes, livestock, forestry and the problem of emissions in the transport sector); reducing non-co2 emissions (the ep also warns of the importance of mitigating emissions of so-called short-lived pollutants such as black carbon, hydrocarbon and methane to slow down short-term partial warming); the role of non-state actors (also the importance of dialogue between governments, business, cities, regions, international climate organisations, civil society and academic institutions to promote a strong global climate finance); the issue of climate change (the ep stressed the need to continue to invest in adaptation efforts to combat climate change) and the importance of eu diplomacy and efforts to mobilise the necessary funds to achieve the eu's climate change ambitions by 2020; welcomes the fact that the eu has committed usd 100 billion to the fight against climate change in the form of a climate change diplomacy and a climate change strategy. in view of the above, i support the adoption of the resolution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. - the existence of climate change is now unquestionable. they are the result of human action and are already clearly discernible in both developing and less developed countries. they cause economic hardship and political discord, and they may even lead to population migration. the paris agreement is considered to be a highly important instrument for climate change mitigation, which seeks to highlight the importance of energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of emissions of harmful substances, all with a view to reducing potential poverty caused by climate change and increasing economic growth. i support the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the un climate change conference to be held in marrakech in 2016. the ratification of the paris agreement fulfils the role of parliament in addressing this problem, since parliament has the power to adopt concrete measures.
the european parliament resolution on the united nations climate change conference to be held in marrakech in november 2016 supports the paris agreement and proposes more ambitious targets to combat climate change. my position is that to protect people, habitats and ecosystems, we need to address the global challenge of climate change and strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate change. however, i believe that member states, and other participating countries, cannot achieve the proposed increased targets and i believe that increasing financial resources to combat climate change would only cause additional burdens for member states without any long-term progress at local, national, regional and international level. that is why i did not support this resolution.
written. ‒ food contact materials are an issue that concerns each of the half a billion eu citizens as they come into contact with them on a daily basis. many citizens buy organic food to avoid pesticides, and the contamination potential of chemicals in food packaging can be a thousand times greater. the current directive dates from 2004, and in the meantime, science and toxicology have advanced. i therefore consider it necessary to review existing rules and procedures in order to strengthen the common market and better protect public health. serious consideration should be given to the interaction of compounds and chemicals that may be harmless on their own but can cause a reaction in humans when combined. furthermore, the rules for paper, cardboard, coatings, inks, metals and adhesives should be harmonised. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts and call on the commission to take the steps proposed in the report as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i voted for the implementation report on the food contact materials regulation because i believe that food safety is a very relevant topic. food contact materials (fcms) are widely used in everyday life and when brought into contact with food, some materials, depending on their composition and properties, transfer their constituents to the food. in such cases, the chemicals released by such materials may endanger human health or have a detrimental effect on the composition of the food. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the use of the substance in question. however, there is certainly room for progress and further harmonisation as member states may adopt specific measures at national level for those materials, and those measures vary from member state to member state. there are also many materials that are not regulated and that pose a risk to human health. i support this report, but i am aware that action is needed at eu level to bring about an even better and more stringent solution.
written. ‒ the supervision and control measures related to food contact materials (fcms) on the eu market are essential to maintain safety and manage the potential risk of human exposure to hazardous chemicals. consequently, further harmonisation of the rules related to fcms in the areas of risk assessment and enforcement and compliance control is necessary. some institutions, such as the european food safety authority, deal with food contact materials, but their action is limited. the controls that states are required to carry out under the regulation on official controls on food and feed are rarely regular. the control procedures vary across the eu member states and the documentation that accompanies these checks is often unavailable or incomplete. in order to ensure effective supervision of fcms within the eu, it is necessary to fill in the gaps in risk assessment, to follow materials in every part of the supply chain and to ensure compliance and the successful implementation of controls. the existing framework of measures should be adapted in order to better achieve the objectives of preserving and protecting the health of consumers and to improve the efficiency of the existing internal market for food. in view of the forthcoming claims, i supported this report, as i believe that product safety standards in the eu must ensure and protect the health of consumers and facilitate controls in the member states.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the implementation of the regulation on materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. i believe that we need to introduce common eu-wide measures for most food contact materials because acting in accordance with the requirements of different national rules is neither efficient nor effective in achieving the objectives. it is also important that producers and processors provide complete information and that there is a good level of cooperation between scientific bodies and laboratories in all member states in order to ensure the health of food, but also to enable technological innovation in the future based on clear and uniform rules. in accordance with one of the main objectives of the regulation, namely the protection of human health, the commission should also examine the effects of interaction and multiple exposures to such materials when setting migration limits from materials considered safe for human health. the commission has also identified a number of areas where the union should take action, such as the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and control of organised crime, the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, the fight against money laundering and the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, and the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing.
written. ‒ the principle of mutual recognition does not apply to national measures, so that the effective functioning of the internal market and a high level of health protection cannot be guaranteed. i recommend the introduction of harmonised eu standards for the analytical testing of food contact material categories. further measures at eu level would provide an incentive for companies to develop safe fcms that can be recycled and reused, contributing to the eu's efforts to establish a more efficient circular economy. full attention should be paid to the adoption of specific measures for 13 materials that are not yet regulated at eu level. i particularly support further research into nanomaterials, given that their effects on human health have not yet been scientifically established with certainty. nanomaterials should be subject to a procedure for authorisation of use. the ceramic regulation also needs to be revised. i call on the commission to increase the level of funding to efsa in view of the additional work required due to the increased need to carry out risk assessment. the absence of specific measures encourages the emergence of barriers to the internal market, with increased costs often passed on to consumers. member states shall ensure that the necessary staff and equipment are available to carry out uniform, robust and systematic checks and to establish a system of dissuasive penalties in the event of non-compliance.
written. ‒ food comes into contact with a number of materials and articles (fcms) during storage, processing, serving and final consumption. although they should be inert in structure and not affect the quality of food or the health of consumers, some materials behave unexpectedly and transfer their constituents to food. this is primarily the case for endocrine disruptors hormone-disrupting chemicals present in a wide range of commonly used products such as pesticides and biocides, food packaging materials, dishes, etc. they have a significant negative impact on health, causing cancer, fertility problems, obesity, neurobehavioral disorders such as hyperactivity, etc. also, among these chemicals, the most well-known is certainly bisphenol a, to which we are exposed through plastic food packaging, plastic bottles, and baby bottles. i supported the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the regulation on materials in contact with food in order to develop better synergies between the fcms framework regulation and the circular economy in light of the eu's move towards a circular economy, which should include harmonised methods for testing the harmfulness of these materials, banning their use and adopting specific measures for their regulation across the european union.
written. ‒ although considerable progress has been made in improving global food security, the total number of chronically undernourished people remains unacceptable. that is why i think it is right that the eradication of hunger has become one of the priorities of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. i also believe that among the most important elements of the fight against the agriculture action plan is to encourage responsible private sector involvement and to learn from inclusive business models. this resolution encourages the increase of smallholder productivity and the achievement of sustainable agricultural and food systems, and recognises rural transformation as a key process for creating jobs, increasing incomes and achieving long-term food and nutrition security. i believe that through the proposed integration of the countries most affected by hunger into global trade and by keeping food security and nutrition at the heart of global and national policies, progress will be made in the fight against malnutrition. that's why i voted for this resolution.
written. - i support this report. the commission's annual report shows that the environment, transport and internal market and services have in most cases remained at their 2014 level. according to the report, the number of formal infringement procedures has been reduced as a result of the effectiveness of the informal eu pilot procedure. however, the rapporteur also points out that, given that parliament still has only limited access to information on this procedure and on current cases, it is difficult to assess to what extent the reduction in the formal procedure actually reflects better compliance with eu law.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the monitoring of the application of union law: annual report 2014 because i believe that the effective application of eu law has an impact on strengthening the credibility of the institutions of the european union. in its annual reports, the commission has given importance to the representation of citizens, businesses and civil society organisations as a fundamental right enshrined in the lisbon treaty and an important element of european citizenship, as well as an important secondary means of monitoring the application of eu legislation and identifying possible loopholes in the law through the direct expression of citizens' views on their own views and experiences, such as elections and referendums, which remain the primary means of their democratic expression. the 32nd annual report on the monitoring of the application of eu law showed that the process of implementing eu law is still not sufficiently transparent, but there is still room for improvement, so changes and a different approach leading to even greater transparency are expected in the new period.
written. ‒ successful implementation of legislation is a key means of achieving the eu's objectives. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the application of the provisions of this directive. although the proper implementation of legislation depends largely on the member states themselves, some factors, such as unrealistic implementation deadlines, prevent the member states from achieving the objectives of certain directives. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu acquis in the member states. the monitoring of the application of eu legislation would be facilitated by more systematic reporting and improved access to information for parliament, member states and eu citizens. in addition, member states should be allowed room for manoeuvre in the implementation of directives, in order to ensure their timely application and avoid delayed transposition. the european parliament should have a greater role in monitoring the implementation of eu law, as its participation would allow for the follow-up of individual cases and thus build on the existing knowledge within its relevant committees. in order to allow this, parliament should be given access to information on pending cases and other issues related to the implementation of eu law. i supported this report because i believe that the effective application of eu law is one of the most important factors in strengthening the credibility of the institutions of the european union and in achieving its objectives.
‒ the commission's 32nd annual report on the monitoring of the application of eu law contains information on the actual implementation and practical application of eu law. the majority of infringements in 2014 were in the area of environmental protection, transport and the internal market. the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the last five years, which i consider to be a good progress compared to the amount of eu rules in force in the member states. according to the european commission, this reflects the effectiveness of the dialogue with member states in the context of the eu infringement procedure (eu pilot). however, given that parliament still has relatively little access to information on the implementation of these procedures and pending cases, it is difficult to assess to what extent the reduction in formal infringement procedures actually reflects better compliance with eu law by member states rather than compromise solutions between the commission and member states. the european parliament could and should play a structural role in analysing and developing appropriate support for eu law in both acceding and countries with an association agreement with the european union. i supported the report because it points to real problems and i expect that in future reports the commission will also take account of the european parliament's demands just made.
written. ‒ the main responsibility for the correct implementation and application of eu law lies with the member states, but this does not relieve the eu institutions of their duty to respect eu primary law when drafting eu secondary law. the eu pilot aims to bring closer cooperation between the commission and the member states in order to correct violations of eu legislation at an early stage, avoiding the need to initiate formal infringement proceedings. unrealistic deadlines for implementing legislation may result in member states being unable to meet them, thus tacitly granting a delay in application more realistic deadlines for applying regulations and directives are needed. i believe that fines for non-compliance with eu law should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive and should be set taking into account repeated non-compliance and respecting the legal rights of the member states. poor implementation and enforcement play an important role in a series of european crises and create unequal conditions in the single market. parliament should make an additional contribution by sharing its expertise on the legislative process with national parliaments. the commission should also be able to draw up reports, not just resolutions, in response to the annual progress reports drawn up by the commission and to assist in the review of the implementation of legislation by exercising oversight over the commission.
written. the 2014 annual report contains interesting data on the implementation and actual application of legislation and the importance of the role of eu citizens in the overall process. the report shows a decrease in human rights violations, but also highlights that they are still being violated, especially in the areas of minority rights, disability rights, foreigners' rights, transportation rights, education rights and health care rights. one of the most effective sources of information on this problem is certainly individual complaints from citizens. accordingly, there must be a legal obligation to inform the citizens of the european union in a clear and accessible manner of which national legal rules have been adopted into european union law. it also proposes that parliament draw up its own reports, rather than just resolutions, to enable all the committees concerned to deliver relevant opinions and to monitor the way in which member states comply with european union law. the conclusion drawn from this report indicates that there is still insufficient transparency, therefore, as the european union is based on the rule of law, legal certainty and predictability of the law, it is important to strengthen its credibility and to meet citizens' expectations regarding the benefits they can enjoy as citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ one of the commission's competences includes monitoring the application of eu law. accordingly, it is empowered to initiate proceedings against member states which are in breach of their obligations under the treaty. in order to achieve more effective controls, an eu pilot procedure is envisaged, which aims to reduce the initiation of official infringement procedures through cooperation between the commission and the member state. the 32nd annual monitoring report on enforcement by the commission shows a decrease in the number of formal proceedings attributed by the commission to prior cooperation with member states. however, due to the parliament's incomplete insight into the eu pilot procedure, it cannot be assessed whether this is due to cooperation with member states or member states are less likely to breach their obligations. the commission and parliament have an obligation to cooperate with each other. it is necessary to develop a procedure to allow for better cooperation between the two institutions in order to monitor the application of eu legislation. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ this own-initiative report on the monitoring of the application of eu legislation for 2014 highlights that the number of cases of infringement of legislation has decreased. since parliament has only limited information on the procedure, it is difficult to assess the reasons for the decline in infringements, and in particular whether this is due to the general improvement in the alignment of national legislative systems with those of the european union. however, i believe that in general one of the root causes of the infringements is the unrealistic implementation deadlines imposed on individual member states of the union. member states should certainly be given more time for inquiry and consultation. although i support the parts of the report calling on the commission to take account of the above, i voted in abstention because unfortunately the report does not incorporate amendments calling for respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the application of union legislation.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is a political message to the commission that parliament will not support any new authorisation until the authorisation process for gm food is reformed.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds because i do not support the use of genetically modified organisms on agricultural land.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec and is not in line with its objective of protecting human health and the environment in certain cases where genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment. it is the modifications to bt11 expressing the gene for the cry1ab protein, namely the bt protein (derived from bacillus thuringiensis of the kurstaki sub-species) which provides resistance to the presence of the maize moth (ostrinia nubilalis) and the mediterranean maize moth (sesamia nonagrioides), and to the pat protein which provides tolerance to the ammonium glufosinate herbicides that will not have their expected economic effect. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the renewal of the approval of glufosinate, which expires in 2017. i see no reason why approval should be given to seeds that will only be used for one year and that with the use of substances with known adverse health effects.
‒ in 2005, efsa issued an opinion concluding that there are no compatible relatives with which maize could be crossed in nature and that no adverse environmental effects are expected from the cultivation and spread of this species. the spanish competent authorities have informed the commission of the presence of theosinte in spanish maize fields, including a very limited presence in fields of genetically modified maize, and that the available data indicate that theosinte has also been found in france. since theosine populations can become recipients of transgenic dna derived from genetically modified maize mon 810 and thereby produce bt toxin, this allows for a higher survival capacity of maize-theosine hybrids compared to the indigenous plants of theosine. this is a scenario that carries a high risk to farmers and the environment. i consider that this draft commission decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk assessment of farming carried out by efsa is not complete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are not adequate. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is, in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the protection of human health and the environment when genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ taking into account the draft implementing decision of the european commission on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 (syn-btø11-1) seed for cultivation, and since the cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 is prohibited in the territories of certain member states, including croatia, pursuant to article 26c (2) of directive 2001/18/ec, the draft implementing decision of the european commission exceeds its implementing powers as established by directive 2001/18/ec. in addition, the risk assessment of the cultivation by the european food safety authority is incomplete and the commission's draft implementing decision is not sufficiently aligned with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states protecting human health and the environment in the event of the deliberate introduction of genetically modified organisms for any purpose other than placing on the union market. i therefore support the objection and the european parliament resolution on the commission's draft implementing decision to place genetically modified maize bt11 (syn-btø11-1) seed for cultivation on the market.
written. ‒ i supported the objection to the commission decision authorising the placing on the market for cultivation of the genetically modified maize variety bt11 (syn-btø11-1), as some member states of the european union oppose the placing on their market of genetically modified products. in view of the human health and environmental implications involved, i consider that each member state has the right to determine the conditions or restrictions for the placing on the market of genetically modified products and their cultivation, whether genetically modified food intended directly for human consumption or animal feed. along with human health, the protection of our traditional agricultural production and the environment must come first, so we need to take every possible measure to prevent genetically modified corn from being dispersed through the air.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is a political message to the commission that parliament will not support any new authorisation of gmo crops and products until the authorisation process for the sale of gm food is reformed.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: the placing on the market of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 because i do not support the use of genetically modified organisms on agricultural land.
written. ‒ genetically modified maize containing the 1507 change expresses genes for the cry1f protein, or bt protein, and the cultivation of bt11 maize is already banned in croatia and a number of other member states. i am also concerned about the presence of the pat protein which may have a negative impact on reproductive health due to its associated use with glufosinate and may have a negative impact on conservation. theosinta, the ancestor of cultivated maize, present in spain since 2009, is the one that poses a major risk to farmers and the environment and is a cause for concern. theosine populations may become recipients of transgenic dna derived from genetically modified maize mon 810 grown in spain in some regions where theosine is spreading uncontrollably and the genetic material may transfer to theosine, which will therefore be able to produce bt toxin and allow for a higher viability of maize-theosine hybrids compared to indigenous plants. for this reason, and because the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec and is not in line with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to protect human health and the environment in cases of deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ glufosinate is classified as a substance with toxic effects on reproduction and therefore subject to the exclusion criteria set out in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009, and the approval of glufosinate expires in 2017. the use of glufosinate should therefore in principle be discontinued in 2017. the spanish competent authorities have informed the commission of the presence of theosinte in spanish maize fields, including a very limited presence in fields of genetically modified maize, and that the available data indicate that theosinte has also been found in france. theosine populations may become recipients of transgenic dna derived from genetically modified maize mon 810 and thereby produce bt toxin, allowing for a higher survivability of maize-theosine hybrids compared to theosine plants native to the plant. this is a scenario that carries a high risk to farmers and the environment. i consider that this draft commission decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk assessment of farming carried out by efsa is not complete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are not adequate. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is, in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the protection of human health and the environment when genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ taking into account the draft implementing decision of the european commission on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seed 1507 (das-ø15ø7-1) for cultivation and since the cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 is prohibited in the territories of certain member states, including croatia, pursuant to article 26c (2) of directive 2001/18/ec, the draft implementing decision of the european commission goes beyond its implementing powers as established by directive 2001/18/ec. in addition, the risk assessment of the cultivation by the european food safety authority is incomplete and the commission's draft implementing decision is not sufficiently aligned with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states protecting human health and the environment in the event of the deliberate introduction of genetically modified organisms for any purpose other than placing on the union market. i therefore support the objection and the european parliament resolution on the commission's draft implementing decision to place genetically modified maize seed 1507 (das-ø15ø7-1) on the market for cultivation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection concerning the placing on the market of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 (das-ø15ø7-1). as i have already pointed out, certain member states have prohibited the cultivation of this genetically modified maize and, since this decision may affect human health, the environment and agriculture in the member states, i consider that each member state must have the right to choose whether to allow the placing of genetically modified seed on its market. the impact of genetically modified products has been a subject of debate for many years, given that various scientific studies show a high potential for adverse effects on human health and the environment. i believe that the commission should withdraw its decision and that future decisions should be taken primarily in line with the provision of high protection of human health and animal welfare and the environment, and that it should bear in mind that the european parliament has never given authorisation for the placing on the market of genetically modified products.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is a political message to the commission that parliament will not support any new authorisation of gmo crops and products until the authorisation process for the sale of gm food is reformed.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: renewal of the authorisation for seeds of genetically modified maize mon 810 because i do not support the use of genetically modified organisms on agricultural land.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution as i consider that the draft implementing decision goes beyond the powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is not compatible with its objectives of providing a basis for a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, and at the same time the effective functioning of the internal market. i would remind you that the efsa gmo panel reiterates its recommendations for monitoring the environmental impact of the placing on the market of mon 810 maize every year, and it should be borne in mind that efsa itself has excluded cross-pollination in maize in its scientific opinion, thus overlooking the potential risks to biodiversity.
‒ efsa arbitrarily excluded cross-pollination in maize from consideration in its scientific opinion on mon 810 maize, thereby overlooking potential risks to biodiversity. theocyte populations may become recipients of transgenic dna derived from mon 810 grown in spain in some regions where theocyte is spreading uncontrollably, thereby producing bt toxin and allowing a higher survivability of maize hybrids and theocyte hybrids compared to theocyte native plants such a scenario poses serious risks to farmers and the environment. the efsa gmo committee repeats its recommendations on the monitoring of the environmental impact of the placing on the market of mon 810 maize and the importance of national gmo cultivation registries every year in vain. i consider that the draft commission implementing decisions go beyond the implementing powers provided for in the regulation. the risk assessment of farming carried out by efsa is not complete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are not adequate. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of the regulation to provide a basis for a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ having regard to the commission's draft implementing decision renewing the authorisation to place genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6) seed for cultivation on the market, and since the cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 will be prohibited in the territories of certain member states, including croatia, pursuant to article 26c (2) of directive 2001/18/ec, the commission's draft implementing decision does not go beyond the implementing powers conferred by regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. in addition, the risk assessment of the cultivation by the european food safety authority is incomplete and the draft implementing decision by the commission is not in line with the objectives of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to ensure a high level of protection of human health and life, animals, the environment and consumers associated with genetically modified food while ensuring the efficient functioning of the internal market. i therefore support the objection and the european parliament resolution on the commission's draft implementing decision renewing the authorisation to place genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6) seed for cultivation on the market.
written. ‒ i supported the objection to the renewal of the authorisation of genetically modified maize mon 810 seed, as that seed is entered in the community register of genetically modified food and feed. in particular, certain member states of the european union have banned the cultivation and use of genetically modified crops and food and i believe that the commission must respect their decision. i also believe that all the institutions of the european union, including the commission, should put a high level of protection of the life and health of citizens, the preservation and protection of the environment and consumer protection first. although the european union has some of the strictest regulations on genetically modified products in the world, i believe that member states must decide for themselves, with the help of experts, whether they want these products on their market.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is a political message to the commission that parliament will not support any new authorisation of gmo crops and products until the authorisation process for the sale of gm food is reformed.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: renewal of the authorisation for products derived from genetically modified maize mon 810 because i do not support the use of genetically modified organisms on agricultural land.
written. ‒ the insufficient risk assessment and the lack of studies on long-term consumption and toxicity are likely reasons why this draft commission implementing decision has not been the subject of an opinion in either the standing committee or the appeal committee. for these reasons, but also considering that the draft implementing decision of the commission exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is contrary to its objective of a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, and at the same time to the effective functioning of the internal market, i have decided to support this resolution. i recall that on 28 october 2015 the european parliament rejected the legislative proposal of 22 april 2015 amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 because, despite the fact that cultivation necessarily takes place on the territory of one member state, trade in genetically modified organisms takes place across national borders and on the basis of that proposal it was not possible to carry out a successful monitoring of the implementation of the regulation. as parliament suggested to the commission that it submit a new proposal that would take into account member states' concerns, which are not exclusively related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health or the environment, this has not been done to date.
written. ‒ parliament rejected the legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of april 2015 because trade in genetically modified organisms takes place across national borders, regardless of the fact that the cultivation takes place on the territory of one member state. this means that the national prohibition of 'sales and use' proposed by the commission could be unenforceable without the reintroduction of border controls on imports. the draft implementing decision of the commission goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in the regulation. it is not in accordance with union law, is incompatible with the objective of the regulation to provide a basis for a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed and thus to guarantee the effective functioning of the internal market. i call on the commission to take account of the issues that are often raised at national level. the two main reasons for member states voting against or abstaining were the lack of studies on long-term consumption and toxicity and the insufficient risk assessment. however, i expect the commission to submit a new legislative proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which will also take into account concerns expressed by member states on issues not necessarily related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health or the environment.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the commission's draft implementing decision on the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified maize and products containing, consisting of or produced from it is controversial for several reasons. the draft was not voted on in accordance with the envisaged eu legislation. the draft implementing decision has not been the subject of an opinion and the majority of votes cast does not represent the will of the majority of member states. this did not achieve the control mechanism foreseen for the commission's decisions. the studies carried out on the harmfulness and risks of the use of those products are incomplete. it is necessary to protect human health, animal health and the environment. the commission's proposal to prohibit the cultivation of these products on its territory at national level is contrary to eu principles when it extends to prohibiting their sale. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. therefore, i support the objection and the european parliament resolution on the draft implementing decision of the european commission concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6) and products.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to renew the authorisation of genetically modified maize mon 810 products because some eu member states oppose the placing of genetically modified products on their market and the european parliament has not authorised the placing of genetically modified products on the market. as there are still various doubts about the impact of genetically modified products, both on human health and on the environment and animal health, i consider it irresponsible to renew the authorisation of a product for which we cannot say with certainty that it has no harmful effects. the lack of a legal framework and incomplete research results should not be an excuse or justification for potentially endangering people's living standards. each country should decide whether to place genetically modified products on its market, and the same applies to mon 810 maize.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is a political message to the commission that parliament will not support any new authorisation of gmo crops and products until the authorisation process for the sale of gm food is reformed.
written. ‒ 91 - i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 x 3006-210-23 x mon 88913 because i do not support the use of genetically modified organisms on agricultural land.
the genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 expresses the gene for the protein phosphinotricin acetyltransferase (pat) which confers tolerance to glufosinate-ammonium herbicides and the gene for the modified protein cp4 5-enolpiruvil-shikimat-3-phosphate synthase (cp4epsps) which confers tolerance to glyphosate herbicides, as well as the cry1f and cryac1 protein genes, which provide protection against certain insect pests of the order lepidoptera. the tolerance to herbicides containing active substance glyphosate means that the economic effect will only be recognisable with the use of herbicides containing that active substance. however, the world health organization has classified glyphosate as a human carcinogen. in view of the above, i consider that the draft implementing decision is not in line with the objective of a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market, as set out in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, the draft also exceeds the implementing powers of that regulation and therefore i support the resolution and stress that the regulation must be amended in such a way that the concern for the wishes of the member states is not limited to health and environmental impact issues.
written. ‒ in october last year, parliament rejected a legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 from april of that year because trade in genetically modified organisms takes place across national borders, regardless of the fact that the cultivation takes place on the territory of one member state. this means that the national prohibition of 'sales and use' proposed by the commission could be unenforceable without the reintroduction of border controls on imports. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the geographical indications of the geographical indication. it is not in accordance with union law, is incompatible with the objective of the regulation to provide a basis for a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed and thus to guarantee the effective functioning of the internal market. i call on the commission to take into account issues that are frequently raised at national level and that go beyond concerns about the safety of genetically modified organisms for health and the environment.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the commission's draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton was not voted on in accordance with the envisaged eu legislation and the commission exceeded its powers. the draft implementing decision has not been the subject of an opinion and the majority of votes cast does not represent the will of the majority of member states. such a high-profile legislative procedure is not appropriate for the adoption of decisions relevant to the protection of human health, animal health and the environment. it is envisaged that a member state may prohibit the cultivation of those products on its territory. however, the problem arises when a ban on their sale in a particular member state would create the need to check imports, which is contrary to eu principles. i therefore support the objection and the european parliament resolution on the draft implementing decision of the european commission concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of certain products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified cotton. the commission should take such decisions primarily on the basis of the protection of human health and the environment and should be guided by the fact that the european parliament, as the representative body of the citizens of the european union, has never given its consent to the placing on the market of genetically modified products. in addition, certain member states have indicated that they do not wish to place genetically modified products on their market, whether for human consumption, animal feed or other products. i therefore believe that each country should decide for itself whether it wants to place genetically modified products on its market, regardless of the fact that the european union's risk assessment process for genetically modified products is probably one of the most rigorous in the world.
on behalf of the alde club. mr. president, when my college friends see that i've been talking about sustainable finance, they'll probably laugh because i was once the editor-in-chief of a magazine called bankruptcy. a magazine that was only published in zero numbers because it was immediately banned, because during the communist era, you couldn't talk about bankruptcy. it was not possible to speak in the former yugoslavia, which was at least a little more open than other eastern countries. however, today we can talk about bankruptcy, today we can also talk about the fact that, as we know, some countries, even the eurozone countries, are close to bankruptcy or were close to bankruptcy, that some cities, some local government units have come to the situation of bankruptcy and that some regions have come to serious financial problems. we really need to talk about this and that kind of sustainable finance here. and that's why i support this initiative that we're hearing about today from the commission, but i want to add something, as my own small contribution. i think that in any case we need to talk about the synergy of funding many projects that are important to us especially when we talk about climate change and green projects that simply cannot be seriously funded without also having in mind the need for various types of subsidies. so if we talk about the synergies that we can produce, i see that synergy between what the commission does and what the commission can finance through, specifically, cohesion policy, but of course this must be supplemented by everything that the european investment bank can do, what the member states can do and what they can do, i insist on this, and the regional and local authorities in the areas where some projects are being carried out, because we know very well that both regional and local authorities have the possibility of subsidies and can help in the implementation of various projects. speaking specifically about energy, i'm more than pleased that finally a project in croatia, called plomin 3, is no longer in operation because it was the idea to use coal and to pollute again for the next twenty, thirty years an area. however, investing in wind and solar, as we have a number of examples in croatia, we know that it is looking for the right kind of subsidies and in that context i seriously think that the commission has to come out with concrete proposals where we really need to use solar energy in europe because it doesn't make sense to me that on many parallels where the sun is very scarce we often see solar power plants or attempts to exploit the profitability of the sun for energy purposes. and finally, i would add that i am convinced that all of these aspects of funding that are available can create sustainable funding, not bankrupt us.
mr. president, financial sustainability is not an end in itself. it contributes to economic growth, raises the standards of citizens, prevents criminal activity, corruption, the financing of terrorism. there's been a lot of talk here today about that aspect, about climate change and the green economy, but financial sustainability is important for the whole, not just the financial life of our societies and our countries. for example, the pension systems of our countries, many of them, are on the verge of sustainability, and since these systems collectively account for a large part of public finances, their breakdown can lead to a breakdown of the overall public finances. that's why this topic we're dealing with is so important. we definitely need to create mechanisms for reporting, tracking, financial flows. so are the control mechanisms. in europe, we need to create a banking union that will allow for the supervision of bank deposit insurance and the monitoring of bad financial arrangements between the state and banks. that is why we have established european supervisory authorities, we have other mechanisms. in october last year, we adopted an amended directive on payment service providers which should be part of the legislation of the member states within two years. the commissioner mentioned the directive on non-financial reporting. so we have mechanisms, but we don't often use those mechanisms in the way that we need to. in the eu's international action, we should also work to improve financial supervision and to create a mechanism for crisis prevention and management, in particular in cooperation with our main trading partners such as the us, canada and japan, but also with the emerging financial markets of china, india, russia and brazil. all these mechanisms should be found in all other bilateral and multilateral agreements concluded by the eu, and in particular in development aid programmes, as the eu is the largest donor of all other countries together with eur 68 billion in 2015. and we can use that development aid to develop those mechanisms in developing countries that are actually the most vulnerable to the problems of financial sustainability, the dangers of unsustainability. so i welcome this position of the european commission, i call for the application of the existing mechanisms that we have and the development of new ones, and the first step towards that would be to respect the rules that we have adopted ourselves.
madam president, i would of course like to support the report by my colleague, mrs kallas, right from the start. i am convinced that, having seen this absurdity in her report, we have a common customs code, but at the same time each country itself sanctions offenders, that is, has its own sanctions, 28 different legislation on this issue. i am absolutely convinced that the single customs market is one of the great successes of the european union and one that is recognised for. so i support it to the fullest. what i want to stress further, which of course is not visible in this report, is the need to try to overcome the problems that we will face with the enlargement of the european union to the south-east of europe. so i am calling for this to be included in the report and for discussions to be held on how to negotiate with the countries that will join the european union in five, seven, ten years' time and also to try to make sure that we do not have any additional problems with the diversity of legislation in those negotiations.
mr. president, the fight against corruption always, everywhere and always. i support this report because it aims at what we want: to try to root out corruption in the public services of the european union. i want to take this opportunity to underline the strong fight against corruption that has been waged for years in croatia. we should emphasize positive experiences. the work of uskok, the work of dorh, the work of the ministry of interior in croatia means eradicating corruption, and at a high level. and i think it's important that these things are in the reports as well, because we know what southeastern europe means and the possible corruption at high levels in various countries and candidate countries. it is written about, it is spoken about, but i want to warn here that the permanent fight against corruption can only be effective if we start at the highest levels, and in this case it is the european union.
mr. president, what i want to highlight from this report is the fact that along with migration and migrants, we have a key problem of brain drain from poor countries, developing countries. it's the permanent destruction of knowledge, the destruction of a country when young people and educated people, not necessarily just young people, leave those countries and the repercussions are just beginning to be felt. that will create additional problems and additional gaps in those countries. i know that the report is not related to the current situation around the migration policy of the european union, but i want to highlight another good experience that croatia has in relations with both serbia and others on the western balkans route, but i want to protest against the re-raising of the wire on the border between croatia and slovenia.
mr president, i am convinced that the energy union is the only correct solution, and in that context, of course, solidarity with countries with energy problems. i'm definitely one of those advocates who sees lng as something that can solve a number of problems, specifically in the adriatic. we know that croatia has a serious, large lng terminal project on the island of krk, which, by god, has not been very successful for two decades, but i believe that the last steps have been taken, as the commission itself has shown by supporting this project, that lng on krk will finally be realized. as we know, there is a great deal of interest in this from other neighbouring countries. however, we must set things realistically economically, and partly politically, if we want this project to really succeed.
mr president, commissioner cañete, i take this opportunity to say that i support this european strategy for lng and gas storage. i think this is very important for the transition of the european union towards a low-carbon society. but what i would like to draw attention to is that we have defined some of our goals by signing the paris agreement, that we have embedded this in the european parliament's resolutions as goals that we should achieve by 2030 with a view to 2050, and that we have to warn the member states that switching to natural gas as a substitute for coal is not the solution, because it's only a 40% reduction in emissions and we're not going to achieve the goals that we promised, actually signed the paris agreement. i think that the regional approach is very important and i fully support it and it is in this context that the lng terminal on the island of krk is important to build because it will ultimately ensure that south-east europe has diversified supply and is not dependent on just one natural gas supplier. i would point out that in addition to energy and transport, the sector is very important and it is very important to link this lng strategy with the transport strategy.
mr. president, for decades, i've heard us accusing each other on the adriatic. in general, of course, we from croatia are very unhappy with what italian fishermen have been doing for decades, and now in the northern adriatic there is of course a big crowd, because we have slovenian fishermen and croatian fishermen and italian fishermen, and the fish is few, the shellfish is few, the sea is few, and the demand for fish is very high. i therefore support this report because it addresses these problems in a very clear and open way, on delicate subjects, because fishermen are, of course, our great concern and i am absolutely sure that the single fisheries policy, on the other hand, and what we want to do when we talk about fisheries control, is the right way. we must protect the fishermen, but we must also protect the fish so that those same fishermen can continue to do their jobs for a long time.
mr president, commissioner vella, i think this is a very important subject because the common fisheries policy must certainly define the sustainable development of fisheries in the european union and especially in those member states which have this wealth, but also this tradition. i would like to draw attention to the fact that in the context of this common fisheries policy we must not forget that it should in fact be directed in some way towards the fact that we have elements that are geared to traditional fisheries, which are not currently recognised in this common fisheries policy. there are certain categories of our fishermen who are threatened by this common solution because it is their livelihood, that is, the livelihood of their families. i therefore believe that a common platform on which to build control is certainly welcome, but that the specificities of individual member states, which are already traditionally fisheries-oriented, should also be taken into account.
mr president, speaking to fishermen, i often hear them complain that their profession is more controlled than any other. in addition, in some member states fisheries controls are much stricter than in neighbouring member states. some member states carry out controls from the fishing gear to the consumption, while others focus on only certain parts of the supply chain. consumers have the right to information on the origin of food. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, the sense of injustice requires that fisheries controls be harmonised within the european union, while respecting the interests and competences of individual member states. the present sense of injustice in the fisheries sector would be reduced by simplifying and improving union legislation and reducing the existing administrative burden.
mr president, i take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for having really highlighted in his report a very important subject which is of great importance to all member states and their citizens, namely transport and transport infrastructure. in particular, he stressed the importance of regional railways, i.e. the connection between member states which is currently lacking and which is in fact very important not only for transport but for the development of entrepreneurship and the economy, i.e. economic cooperation, cross-border cooperation between these countries. i would also like to thank him for including in his report the need to strengthen the eurovelo cycling network, which is also a good alternative, or follow-up to sustainable transport. and i think that's going to show that young people in southeastern europe don't really have the opportunity to travel by rail because the railway is practically there, but the railway of the 19th century.
mr president, the transport link between central and eastern europe is one of the biggest infrastructure challenges facing the european union today. the over 60 years of neglect of key transport infrastructure in the former communist states, as well as the lack of strategic planning in their transport links with their neighbours due to the isolationist nature of the former regimes, have left a trail that we must erase if we want the uniform development of the whole of the european union. mr poreba has done a great job with this report and has shown how this house can lead the way in processes that will lead to better connections between member states and easier flows of people and goods. without it, we will never be able to exploit the full potential of the single market, and this report is extremely important in that context too. in particular, i welcome the recommendation to include the croatian port of rijeka in the baltic-adriatic corridor. i hope that the commission will recognise the importance of such a move which is of particular interest to both croatia and the european union.
mr president, the countries of central and eastern europe face the same transport problems as the other countries of the european union, only the problems are even more serious. this means the neglect of rail transport, the neglect of river transport, especially when you consider that the danube passes through eastern europe and that one of the rhine-danube corridors passes, therefore, through eastern europe. not to mention, almost no airports have a rail connection. that is why i called on the countries to cooperate better with each other and on the commission to encourage them in some way to cooperate better in order to bridge their differences and thus make europe more connected. the importance of this report is that it continues to the western balkan countries that have become part of this network, and their linking will be a transport link, which will mean better connectivity with europe and better understanding of each other.
mr president, i will not talk about big issues, i will talk and thank you for accepting the amendment of mr rados and me and thus potentially now the river port has become part of the ten-t network. it's something that's of extreme importance to transportation in the northern adriatic. i want to talk about one small detail because these ten-t networks end somewhere and sometimes twenty, fifty kilometers solve a historical problem and that is why i want to highlight the problem of isolation in the railway traffic of the city of pula and the istrian peninsula, where croatian railways enter the slovenian railways and do not have direct contact, are not territorially connected. pula has a plan to make a sea passenger terminal, has a rail port ideal intermodal traffic can be created at this point if we include the rail line in the ten-t network, and it is about eighty kilometers. so i invite you to think about that, to solve that detail and then we have the entire northern adriatic included in the ten-t corridors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have repeatedly stressed the importance of the integration of the western balkan countries into the european union for those countries, but also for the european union itself, and i am doing so now. with all the standard difficulties being solved very slowly, the latest developments are not optimistic. it is an illegal referendum that was held in republika srpska, the announcement of similar referendums including the one on the secession of republika srpska, then the non-recognition of the election results by part of the opposition in montenegro, and of course it does not inspire optimism nor the announcement of another joint military exercise of serbia and russia on the territory of serbia. i welcome the commission's activities, in particular those of commissioner hahn and high representative mogherini, but i also call on the council and the european parliament to make more political efforts to stabilise the situation in the western balkans so that this area becomes a space of peace and stability, rather than a source of instability for europe.
mr president, i would like to alert the commission to the alarming situation in certain countries in the western balkans. the illegal referendum in bosnia and herzegovina, the attempted coup in montenegro, the relations between montenegro because of the situation in kosovo and because of what the opposition is doing in kosovo, not to mention the situation in fyrom, that is, in macedonia. but that is not all. we have a problem in the western balkans where one member of the european union, slovenia, is at this moment, for reasons that are well known to her, re-building a wall, a wire, towards croatia, that is, the croatian-slovenian border. croatia has not erected a wall or a wire in relation to serbia and bosnia and herzegovina, neither during the previous left-wing government nor now, according to the latest statements we have heard from government representatives. i wonder if the commission is aware that this is adding fuel to the fire on the so-called western balkan migration route in a totally unacceptable way.
madam president, democracy and the rule of law did not fall from the sky for the citizens of the european states. they have built and perfected them for centuries, often sacrificing themselves to defend their rights. modern times and the tremendous technological advances have brought some new challenges to our societies, but that is no reason why we should allow disrespect for the fundamental principles of our civilization. i agree, therefore, that it is our duty to preserve democratic processes and to ensure the rule of law, but i do not think that we need a uniform mechanism for that. we must not forget that the member states of the european union have emerged from different traditions and different paths of development and have different ways of protecting these values. the european union's uniform mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights can only widen the gap between the national and european levels of governance at this point, and that is why i think it is a step in the wrong direction.
madam president, the proposed european union mechanism for democracy and the rule of law and fundamental rights is not in line with the fundamental treaties of the european union, nor with the very principles of the charter of human rights of the european union which it proposes as the legal basis for legislative measures, including sanctions, against member states. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. the provisions of the charter of human rights apply to the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union, subject to the principle of subsidiarity, and to the member states only when they are implementing union law. the charter does not extend the scope of union law beyond the competences of the union, does not create new competences or tasks for the union, and does not alter the competences and tasks as laid down in the treaties. the mechanism proposed in this report is not acceptable as it is not in line with the fundamental treaties of the european union and the charter of human rights of the european union and violates the principle of subsidiarity of sovereign member states.
written. - i support this report. the draft council decision aims to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching and comparison of dna data. the commission has also received comments from the danish authorities, which have not provided any further information.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark, as it accepts the draft council. the exchange of information is of particular importance when it comes to cross-border cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crime. the automated exchange of data between eu member states leads to stronger union action in that area. however, i believe that special care should be taken to protect personal data and to protect the rights of each individual.
written. ‒ i agree that denmark is authorised by the council to receive and send personal dna data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha. the report clearly shows that it has fulfilled all the prerequisites to confirm the achievement of the general security conditions for the protection of those same data, through an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and an initial experiment in which it exchanged data with the netherlands. the possibility of automated exchange of personal dna data is very important in various processes, especially criminal ones, in order to facilitate the tracing and identification of wanted persons through such data and is thus crucial for enhancing security throughout the european union. denmark can thus be involved in the european and global fight against crime, which is the task of all member states of the european union. given the current migration crisis and the still poorly controlled flow of migrants into europe, such and similar security measures are of paramount importance to safeguard the safety of european citizens and to identify criminals.
written. ‒ the intention is to authorize denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purpose of automated searching and comparison of dna data, as defined in the prüm agreement. denmark has conducted a successful pilot project and has complied with all data protection measures. the commission has assessed that denmark is ready to take over the prüm commitments. i accept the council's draft and invite the council to consult parliament again if it intends to make substantial changes to the text adopted by parliament.
written. ‒ effective police cooperation is one of the cornerstones of the european union's existence in terms of freedom, security and justice, based on respect for fundamental rights, with the aim of preventing, detecting and investigating crime in the european union. the deepening of cross-border cooperation is important in terms of combating terrorism and cross-border crime. having regard to the resolution of 10 october 2013 on enhancing cross-border law enforcement cooperation in the european union, the implementation of the prüm decision and the european information exchange model, i support the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in the danish committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
written. - i supported the report on the automated dna data exchange in denmark which is purely technical in nature. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the information requested by the commission in the form of a letter of formal notice. i believe that this will make a significant contribution to the fight against terrorism that the european union faces, but also to the fight against crossborder crime. this will allow for automated searching of dna profiles and automated comparison of dna profiles.
written. - i support this report. the draft council decision aims to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated 'fingerprinting' under the prüm treaty. in the light of the above, the commission considers that the conditions for the application of this treaty are fulfilled.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data in denmark, as it accepts the draft council. i believe that it is absolutely necessary to take into account the needs of the individual in the context of the protection of personal data. in this context, automated data exchange contributes to enhanced cross-border cooperation and to a more effective fight against terrorism and crime, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the exchange of dactyloscopic data is crucial to enhance security across the european union. i believe that the dactyloscopic data available in national fingerprint databases should be available to all member states of the european union for inspection and searching and that there should be a constant exchange of dactyloscopic data between states, as this would avoid long-term investigations and the search for the culprits of certain crimes. such exchanges would help to detect and prevent the increasing presence of organised crime in europe and the terrorism that has unfortunately become a global threat. denmark can thus be involved in the european and global fight against crime, which is the task of all member states of the european union. in view of the current migration crisis and the still poorly controlled arrival of migrants in europe, including those who pose a security threat to the eu, such and similar measures are of paramount importance to safeguard the security of european citizens and to identify criminals and, in particular, possible terrorists.
written. ‒ the purpose of the draft council implementing decision is to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purpose of automated searching of dactyloscopic data (fingerprints), as defined in the prüm agreement. denmark has conducted a successful pilot project and has complied with all data protection measures. the commission has assessed that denmark is ready to take over the prüm commitments. i accept the council's draft and invite the council to consult parliament again if it intends to make substantial changes to the text adopted by parliament.
written. ‒ effective police cooperation is one of the cornerstones of the european union's existence in terms of freedom, security and justice, based on respect for fundamental rights, with the aim of preventing, detecting and investigating crime in the european union. the deepening of cross-border cooperation is important in terms of combating terrorism and cross-border crime. having regard to the resolution of 10 october 2013 on enhancing cross-border law enforcement cooperation in the european union, the implementation of the prüm decision and the european information exchange model, i support the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange of dactyloscopic data in the danish committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the launch of the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data between denmark and the countries belonging to the schengen area. by adopting this regulation, all countries concerned will be required to ensure the availability of reference data from the files of national automated fingerprint recognition systems. i believe that this will be a breakthrough in crime prevention and investigation. this will allow for automated searching of dactyloscopic data and it is clearly specified that the reference data should only include dactyloscopic data and the reference number.
written. - i support this report. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu passport, as well as for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport, on the territory of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, as this gives the assent for the conclusion of the agreement. the agreement, which allows travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days, will certainly simplify, at least in part, certain procedures and shorten waiting times. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the visa liberalisation process has not yet been fully implemented, but that it has brought benefits such as the stable development of tourist, cultural and economic links and has provided real benefits. the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms must certainly be taken into account in the conclusion of such agreements, and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the people's republic of china is one of the world's largest industrial producers and a global economic factor. the eu and the prc have therefore established diplomatic relations of the utmost importance. it is important to cultivate good relations, but it is also important to establish the simplest and most effective form of diplomacy. i therefore support this agreement which allows for visa-free travel and short-stay for a period of 90 days for union residents holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu passport and for chinese residents holding a valid diplomatic passport while travelling to the territory of the other states covered by the agreement. this agreement is a very important step towards simple and effective diplomacy. it facilitates, even intensifies, the human-to-human contact that is essential for the continuous development of economic, cultural, scientific and other ties. this agreement is important, but it is not the end of the story, but the first step towards the ultimate goal - visa-free travel for ordinary passport holders. such abolition would open up tremendous business and tourism potential. as i come from a country where tourism is one of the most developed sectors, i know how important tourism openness is for the whole of the european union and i hope for this final result.
written. ‒ i welcome the fact that eu passport holders are covered by the proposed agreement for the first time. i encourage the efta member states to conclude similar terms to those in that agreement. the agreement establishes a joint committee and i draw your attention to the fact that the european union is represented in the joint committee for the management of the agreement only by the european commission. the european parliament could participate in the work of the joint committee or at least receive regular information on the outcome of its meetings. i hope this is a step forward in terms of achieving full reciprocal exemption for ordinary passport holders. the liberalisation of visa arrangements is of great importance as it provides real benefits. it will reduce the waiting time at consulates and travel costs. it will facilitate people-to-people contacts, which is a key condition for the stable development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links, and will also contribute to intensifying people-to-people contacts. the liberalisation of visa arrangements should, of course, be carried out in parallel with the introduction of improvements in the area of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. as a member of the foreign affairs committee, i believe that the motion should be given its assent, as it supports our strategic partnership with china, facilitates bilateral exchanges and closer cooperation and is an expression of goodwill on both sides.
written. ‒ in september 2015, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations and to consider negotiating directives for an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for the possibility of visa-free travel for the purpose of the following: this approach certainly alleviates administrative difficulties, reduces costs and facilitates mobility and travel. it's a step further in terms of strengthening international and strategic relations with china. i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
written. ‒ i have supported the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. this exemption allows citizens of the european union and citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport, as well as citizens of the european union holding an eu passport, to travel without a visa to the states of the other contracting party in order to reduce waiting times at consulates. the agreement stipulates that visa-free travel is limited to 90 days, and i believe that its implementation will reduce travel costs and facilitate contacts between people. although the agreement is concluded for an indefinite period, it is particularly important that it can be suspended in whole or in part for reasons of public policy, protection of national security or public health, illegal immigration or following the reintroduction of the visa requirement by one of the contracting parties.
written. - i support this report. the recent financial and economic crisis has put a great strain on national economies and overburdened national budgets. in many member states, european structural and investment funds investments are the main, if not the only, source of investment. however, for countries with budget deficits, it is difficult to find the means to co-finance cohesion policy projects at national level. i therefore support this report on financial assistance to member states with budget deficits.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states in difficulty or facing serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability, given that the financial difficulties faced by greece and cyprus, which lack funds for public investment, allow these countries to benefit from more favourable conditions for the use of european structural and investment funds. for example, the co-financing rate for projects in cyprus is 85% instead of 50%, while in greece it is 95%. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the scheme.
written. ‒ it is clear that the financial crisis has affected the european union, but also each of its member countries. it has put particular pressure on national economies and member states have been forced to take austerity measures to balance their budgets. the best way to help the affected economies is through the european union's main funding instruments, the european structural and investment funds (esif), and their smooth implementation must be guaranteed. however, for countries still experiencing budgetary difficulties, it can be difficult to find sufficient funds to co-finance regional policy projects at national level. they need help with that. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation and the rules on the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1290/2013 and the rules on the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1291/2013 and article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1291/2013 respectively. the union's understanding of the problems of individual member states is evident, as the legislation states that in the event of a questionable and worrying financial situation in individual member states, the timeframe for providing additional financial support may be extended. i welcome this report and hope that helping the member states will continue to be a priority for the union. it's definitely worth fighting for.
written. ‒ the financial and economic crisis has weighed on national economies and member states have introduced austerity measures to balance their budgets. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. i am concerned that member states have not sufficiently used the european structural and investment funds so far in this programming period and welcome any attempt to guarantee higher and faster reimbursements to member states. i recognise the positive impact that an increase in co-financing would have on the economies of the member states concerned, which could allocate more resources for additional investments. i welcome the commission's proposal, which i consider to be a targeted and budget-neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems faced by these two member states. the cypriot authorities have also provided evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline. however, it is of the utmost importance that the member states concerned by the proposal have sufficient administrative capacity to deliver results in line with the increase in resources.
written. ‒ in the midst of the economic crisis and the strain on national budgets, financial stability is sought through the financing of regional policy projects. article 24 of the cpr allows the commission, at the request of a member state in economic difficulties, to increase payments by means of so-called additional financing under an adjustment programme for member states by applying an additional 10 percentage points above the co-financing rate applicable to each priority of the erdf, the esf and the cohesion fund or to each measure of the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. the commission has also received a request from the greek authorities to provide additional information on the implementation of the measures provided for in article 3 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states in difficulty or facing serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal to extend the financial assistance to member states facing temporary budgetary difficulties in order to make the most of the investment opportunities offered by the european structural and investment funds. in this particular case, this applies to greece and cyprus. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the work of the european external action service. in order to ensure that the union's financial assistance to cyprus is consistent with the objectives of the union's macro-financial assistance, the commission should be able to grant a financial contribution to the greek authorities in accordance with the conditions laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i consider the proposed measures to be extremely useful as they represent long-term solutions that seek to reduce the pressure on national budgets and accelerate the necessary investments, and i welcome the fact that the proposal will not affect the financial budget of the european union.
written. - i support the request to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution requesting the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen, on the grounds that it concerns hate speech and that there is no link between his public statements and parliamentary activities.
written. ‒ the immunities of members of the european parliament are based on the principles and values of the treaty on european union. hate speech clearly violates those principles and values. it cannot be tolerated under freedom of speech.
members of the european parliament shall enjoy in the territory of their own member state immunity equivalent to that accorded to members of the parliament of that state. two investigating judges of the high court in paris have filed a request to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen over a controversial racist statement in a video posted on the internet on june 6. since the statement at issue is not related to the parliamentary duties of mr jean-marie le pen, since he did not act in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i support the report of the committee on legal affairs on the request for the waiver of mr jean-marie le pen's immunity.
‒ french mp jean-marie le pen is accused of committing a criminal offence of inciting discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or group of people on the basis of their origin or belonging to a particular ethnic group, nation, race or religion in a video clip posted on the internet. as the allegation made in relation to the video clip published on the internet on 6 june 2014 is not related to his position as a member of the european parliament, i.e. has no direct or apparent connection with the performance of his duties as a member, i support the rapporteur's opinion that the immunity of member le pen be waived and that he be granted a fair and impartial trial.
written. - i support this report on the application for the protection of the privileges and immunities of jane collins.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a decision on the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of ms jane collins, as it decides not to protect the privileges and immunities of the said member. in this case, alleged libel and slander, the statements in question were made outside the european parliament and are not connected with the parliamentary activities of ms collins or european policies.
written. ‒ the immunity of members under article 8 of the protocol applies exclusively to opinions expressed by members of the european parliament in the performance of their duties. the court of justice of the european union has held that statements made by members of the european parliament outside the european parliament are to be considered as having been made in the performance of their duties only if they express a subjective opinion in a direct and manifest manner connected with the performance of those duties. however, there is no direct link between the disputed statements and jane collins' duties as a member of the european parliament, as they are made in the context of a national political debate. article 9 states that during the session of the european parliament, its members shall enjoy in the territory of their country the immunity accorded to members of the parliament of that country. individual members of the parliament of the united kingdom do not enjoy immunity from criminal or civil proceedings. it is understood that article 9 of the charter of rights cannot be applied to jane collins by reference to article 9 of the protocol, as article 9 of the charter is functionally equivalent to article 8 of the protocol, but is intended solely for the protection of members in national parliaments. article 9 of the protocol is therefore not applicable. the immunity of members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the treaty on european union. freedom of speech must not neglect or exceed these values.
written. ‒ jane collins is the subject of a civil action before the administrative chamber of the high court in london as a private claim seeking damages for alleged libel and slander made at a party conference, including criminal damages. however, in accordance with article 8 of the protocol, the members' immunity applies only to opinions expressed by members of the european parliament in the performance of their duties, which does not cover the statements at issue, and therefore the claim of jane collins for the protection of her privileges and immunities is not accepted. i support the report on the application for the protection of the privileges and immunities of jane collins of the committee on legal affairs.
written. - i have supported the motion to waive the immunity of representative jane collins, who is charged with libel. in 2014, mp collins told a conference that three members of the british parliament, sarah champion, john healy and kevin barron, had known about the child sexual abuse scandal in rotherham for 16 years, but did nothing about it. representatives champion, healy and barron allege that representative collins made these allegations to damage their political reputations and discredit them in their positions. since the request for the waiver of the immunity of ms collins has no direct or apparent connection with her position as a member of the european parliament, i consider that this request should be granted on condition that ms collins should be guaranteed a fair and impartial trial, as is the case for all other citizens.
written. - i support this report on the application for the protection of the privileges and immunities of maria borghese.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of mr mario borghese, as it decides not to protect the immunities and privileges of the member concerned. mr. borghezio's statements allegedly espouse ideas based on superiority and racial and ethical hatred, and such statements are not in any way appropriate for political dialogue.
written. ‒ the facts of the case suggest that the statements made by the member during the interview are not directly related to his parliamentary activities and potentially go beyond the tone of a normal political debate and are not in keeping with the spirit of parliament. the immunity of members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the treaty on european union. freedom of speech must not neglect or exceed these values. the court of justice of the european union has confirmed that in the event of proceedings being brought against a member of the european parliament before a national court and that court being informed of the opening of proceedings for the protection of the privileges and immunities of that member, that court must stay the proceedings and request parliament to give its opinion as soon as possible. the milan court, before which the proceedings against mr borghezzi were brought, refused to stay the proceedings and ordered them to be continued despite mr borghezzi's request, on the basis of the relevant case-law of the court of justice of the european union. i regret that the milan court, despite the relevant case law of the court of justice of the european union, refused to stay the proceedings and i expect the italian authorities to always respect the principle of the court of justice of the european union regarding the obligation of the competent court to stay the proceedings if an application for the protection of the privileges and immunities of members of the european parliament is made.
written. ‒ maria borghese is being prosecuted in a milan court for allegedly advocating ideas based on superiority and racial or ethnic hatred in a radio programme. the contested statements are contrary to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and have no connection whatsoever with the values which the european parliament upholds, and therefore cannot be claimed to have been made in the course of the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament. therefore, the claim of mario borghese for the protection of his privileges and immunities cannot be accepted. accordingly, i support the report on the application for the protection of the privileges and immunities of maria borghese of the committee on legal affairs.
written. - i supported the report refusing to grant immunity to italian mp maria borghezzi. representative borghezio is accused of promoting hatred and racism in a radio broadcast on april 29, 2013. he allegedly attacked ms kyenge kashetu, a congolese-born woman who was appointed minister of integration in italy, with his speech. he was accused of expressing opinions that were considered offensive and offensive. although members of the european parliament have the right to freedom of expression, i consider that this freedom does not extend to defamation, incitement to hatred and disparaging statements. as the charges have no direct and obvious connection with the conduct of his activities as a member of the european parliament, i voted to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr borghezzi.
written. ‒ i support this report on rail transport statistics concerning the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending the regulation on rail transport statistics as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents, as i support the simplification of the reporting procedure and the extension of the collection of data to railway infrastructure. i believe it is essential to give citizens simple and easy access to data on the implementation of eu policies and therefore support this recommendation for second reading.
written. ‒ rail transport is a great asset of the european union. it is the simplest and cheapest form of transport and thus offers great mobility to citizens of the european union and beyond. the quality of rail transport and the needs of users must therefore be constantly taken into account in order to maximise the efficiency of rail transport. i support the recommendation on the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents, because it goes in the same direction. the collection of data and statistics on rail passenger and freight travel is necessary to upgrade, simplify and optimise the existing legal framework for european rail transport statistics. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european railway agency. in order to achieve the highest possible accuracy of the data and thus the best possible service to users, the cooperation between the commission services and other competent authorities encouraged by this recommendation is necessary. the commission should also be able to monitor and develop the common transport policy and the transport elements contained in policies relating to regions and trans-european networks. it is clear that the benefits of accepting this recommendation are manifold.
written. ‒ it is of the utmost importance to have a clear vision of the development of ertms in the union as the eu is investing millions of euros in funding this type of infrastructure, but so far without concrete results in terms of the operability of the said system in europe due to irregular implementation and delays in implementation. in order to avoid an overlap between the work of eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency in an efficient and cost-effective way, it is necessary to strengthen the cooperation between those institutions and to ensure that statistical data on eu policies are easily accessible to citizens and stakeholders in the european union. i think it is very important that eu citizens have easy access to data on the implementation of eu policies, all in one place. the agreement on the simplification of the regulation on rail transport statistics was made possible only after the signing of two memoranda, which are not only important instruments for optimising the use of existing information and reducing the administrative burden, but also fulfil the conditions of the co-legislators with regard to the better use of rail transport statistics. this will allow all categories of users to have easily accessible data and reliable information on the progress made by european policy in the rail sector.
written. ‒ to avoid an inefficient overlap between the work of eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency, it is important to strengthen cooperation between the institutions, including making statistics more easily accessible to citizens of the european union. this will optimise the use of existing information and seek to reduce administrative burden while providing all stakeholders with easily accessible data and information on the progress made by european policy in the rail sector. the vote on the second reading of the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents by the committee on transport and tourism has been postponed until the next plenary session of the european parliament.
written. ‒ the rail transport statistics report on the collection of data on freight, passengers and accidents simplifies the rules for the collection of statistical data on rail transport in the european union and encourages close cooperation between eurostat and the european railway agency in order to avoid duplication of work between these bodies. this proposal improves the accessibility of railway stations to persons with reduced mobility and persons with disabilities without collecting additional data, i.e. without imposing additional burdens on member states and other relevant actors, and aims at reducing administrative barriers. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ i support this report on statistics on the transport of goods by inland waterways.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending the regulation on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway, as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures, as it accepts the council position at first reading. i believe that the role of inland navigation within the transport sector needs to be strengthened in order to bring inland waterway transport into a level playing field. in addition, i support the limitation of the commission's power to adopt delegated acts and therefore support this recommendation for second reading.
‒ europe is rich in rivers and canals suitable for the development of the transport sector. inland waterways in large parts of our continent have a strong direct impact on economic activity, but of course we must not overlook their potential for passenger transport either. any policy for developing an area should be based on reliable statistics, and so accurate data on this aspect of inland navigation is needed to boost passenger transport. parliament therefore decided at first reading to extend the scope of the inland waterway freight statistics regulation to passenger transport, and steps have now been agreed to develop a concrete methodology for collecting data and assessing its feasibility. i believe that inland waterway transport must be given a level playing field with the maritime, air and road transport sectors, for which statistics are collected for both goods and passengers. i support today's proposal and hope that the results of its implementation will eventually lead to a stronger development of this form of passenger transport.
written. ‒ parliament considered at first reading that a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland navigation within the transport sector should be based on reliable statistics covering the transport of goods and passengers. the extension of the scope of the existing regulation would put inland waterway transport on an equal footing with the maritime, air and road transport sectors. parliament and the council agreed on this and identified the first steps towards the inclusion of passenger transport statistics in the regulation. the commission will, first, develop a methodology for the collection of statistical data on passenger transport on inland waterways in cooperation with the member states. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the funding of those pilot projects should be supported by the eu budget. parliament and the council agreed to limit the power of the commission to adopt delegated acts. delegated acts should only be adopted to adapt the regulation to changes in labelling and nomenclature at international level and to increase the thresholds. the duration of the delegation shall be limited to five years.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on statistics on inland waterway freight transport, as this is the way to lay the foundations for the development of this type of transport. i support the proposal to adapt the existing definitions and to adapt the scope of data collection and the content of the annexes, and by extending the scope to passenger transport, this type of transport will be placed on an equal footing with other transport sectors. the negotiations between the european parliament and the council have agreed that the commission, in cooperation with the member states, will develop methodologies for the collection of statistical data on passenger transport on inland waterways and launch voluntary pilot studies to examine the feasibility of new ways of collecting data. i consider that this has taken into account the balance between the needs of the users and the reduced increase in the burden at national level.
written. ‒ i support this report which is a compromise in addressing issues such as different sanctions that pose problems for economic operators, international trade relations, creating unequal compliance costs and administrative burdens that could make some member states more attractive.
written. ‒ i voted to refer the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for customs offences and sanctions back to the committee responsible, following the opinion of the alde group and the rapporteur.
written. ‒ the union's legal framework for customs offences and sanctions is particularly important in today's world, where the growth of e-commerce, especially micro-enterprises, requires greater legal certainty to avoid being influenced by the various customs authorities and administrations. although customs rules should already be the same everywhere, when we are faced with the violation of these rules, there is a big difference in the punishment. it is therefore necessary to identify customs duties to which special attention and protection should be given by establishing non-punitive sanctions for possible breaches of those duties. such obligations would be harmonised across the european union and would reduce 'overlap' between individual national enforcement bodies and establish a common platform of rules. this would contribute to a fair and equitable treatment of all economic factors in the european union and at the same time protect the economic interests of the european union. i support this proposal because i believe that harmonising customs offences and, in particular, the sanctions for those offences will contribute to the achievement of justice and the fundamental freedoms of the european union.
written. ‒ the purpose of this directive should be to harmonise the non-punitive sanctions for breaches of customs legislation in order to achieve the most appropriate framework for increasing compliance and reducing the number of infringements. although the customs union is considered one of the foundations of the european union and the backbone of the single market, there is still no integrated approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, including sanctions. this means that the rules are the same, but the sanctions for breaking them are very different. it is clear that without an integrated approach the customs administrations of the member states cannot act as one. the differences create a lack of mutual trust between administrations, which is crucial for the good governance of the customs union. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the authorisation of the use of the term 'authorised economic operator' in the context of the application of this regulation. this is becoming increasingly important with the growth of e-commerce, especially in the case of micro-enterprises and individuals. we also need to prevent the phenomenon of so-called "best-case-scenario jurisdiction". in order to ensure that penalties are effective, proportionate and dissuasive, it is important to leave the customs authorities the possibility to assess the relevant circumstances and, on the basis of that assessment, to decide on the most appropriate sanction. we must abide by the international commitments made in the wto.
written. ‒ the european union can develop a common approach to the enforcement of customs legislation through the interaction and action of customs administrations in an equally effective way as if it were a single administration, since customs legislation is the competence of the european union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. such differences are the cause of mistrust and insufficient cooperation between administrations which consequently undermine the level playing field for all economic operators in the european union. the commission considers that the conditions for the application of the principle of proportionality are fulfilled. the commission should also be able to take into account the specificities of the member states' customs legislation. i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for customs offences and sanctions by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
written. ‒ this directive allows for the imposition of sanctions for customs infringements by approximating the provisions contained in the laws, regulations and codes of the individual member states of the union. the commission has also proposed to amend the existing rules on the application of the anti-dumping duty on imports of certain footwear with uppers of leather originating in the people's republic of china and taiwan, in order to allow the application of the new rules on the application of the anti-dumping duty on certain footwear with uppers of leather originating in the people's republic of china. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the alleged dumping margins. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in force are in line with the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations. on the contrary, the implementation of the same could only lead to problems in practice, in particular related to the lack of flexibility that many member states use on a daily basis in contact with their trading partners. logically, the proposal resulted in the explicit opposition of 15 of the 28 member states of the union in the council. although the original proposal was watered down and modified by requiring only the harmonisation of the maximum level of sanctions, i voted against because i am always against such attempts by the commission which undermine both of the fundamental principles on which the european union is founded.
written. ‒ i support this report on draft amending budget no 3/2016 which relates to new security needs identified by the eu institutions following the recent terrorist attacks.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions, as terrorist attacks have put the security of all citizens at risk. in this context, i believe that additional resources are particularly important when it comes to european schools. i believe that all budgetary amendments, including this one no 3/2016, must ultimately be well thought out, implemented in a transparent manner, be effective and in line with real needs.
written. ‒ the european union's priority is the safety of its citizens. she's certainly multidimensional, but lately, she seems to be most threatened by terrorist activity. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of fraud in the union, the number of cases of fraud in the member states and the number of cases of fraud in the union. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. however, some institutions need to act earlier and speed up the strengthening of security measures. i support the rebalancing of the draft budget no 3 for 2016 because it shows concern for our present, but also for the future. the budget does not only allocate more substantial resources to the institutions of the commission and parliament, but also to the judiciary, which shows concern for the present and the harmonious regulation of relations within the eu. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against drugs and other illicit drugs, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against drugs and illicit drugs. we have lost all the security of the european institutions if we do not protect our smallest and most vulnerable. they are to be cared for in every situation and protected from all harm.
written. ‒ in the light of recent terrorist attacks, the union institutions have reviewed their security needs and identified additional resources as needed in 2016. the budget for the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice of the european union, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service is proposed to be increased by a total of eur 15,8 million. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ given that the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 was finally adopted on 25 november 2015 and the recent terrorist attacks, the institutions of the european union identified a lack of additional resources already in 2016 through a security needs audit. the draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase the budget for the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice of the european union, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service by a total amount of eur 15,8 million. i support the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions.
written. ‒ recent terrorist attacks across europe and in the vicinity of the eu institutions have led to a reassessment of the security of the institutions. the commission's draft amending the european union budget for security proposes additional funds to recruit additional security staff in various institutions such as the european schools, the european parliament and the european commission. the european parliament's committee on budgets proposed that the commission's draft be approved without any changes. i have supported this report because i agree that security measures in the eu institutions need to be further strengthened.
written. ‒ i support this report on the eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal. the s&d group has been at the forefront of the eu's normalisation of relations with iran. in line with this approach, i support the leading role of federica mogherini in overseeing the implementation of the nuclear agreement, building trust and expanding relations in areas of mutual interest. it also calls for further pressure on iran to comply with its international human rights obligations, to drastically reduce the number of executions and to work towards the release of all political prisoners.
written. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement (2015/2274(ini)), following the alde group's position, as the document did not take into account some proposals that are important to the alde group.
written. ‒ in voting on this resolution, we must think carefully about the political message we want to send with our action and how our decision today will be received by people across europe, but also in iran itself. i am sure we all agree that we must encourage the continuation of the renewal of relations between the european union and the member states with iran, but there is no way that we can forget those values which are at the very foundation of our community when thinking about economic development. the development of economic relations between the union and iran must be a process that goes hand in hand with the development of the nuclear agreement, but it must not be forgotten that iran will also make progress in the fields of human rights, women's rights, freedom of expression and the abolition of the death penalty. despite encouraging messages about iranian progress in these areas, which we in europe consider to be priorities, i am not convinced that the highly encouraging tone of the proposed resolution on the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal is appropriate to the current situation in that country and therefore abstained during the vote.
written. ‒ the joint comprehensive plan of action is a significant achievement of multilateral, particularly european, diplomacy, which should allow for a substantial improvement in eu-iran relations and foster stability in the entire region. i welcome the establishment of the joint commission, which is composed of representatives of iran and representatives of the e3/eu+3 countries. i support the high representative of the union in her role as coordinator of the joint commission, the implementation of which remains crucial. iran has a large, relatively highly educated and young population, and its gdp composition is among the most diverse in the region, requiring a large amount of investment. the eu has been iran's main trading partner and should be striving to return to that position, and i therefore support the expansion of the eu's trade relations with iran. i call on the commission to consider ways in which ties could be strengthened to bring iran more into line with wto rules and to protect european investments. energy cooperation can play an important role in increasing the diversification of the sources of energy supply in the eu and reducing the dependence of member states on a single supplier. but iran has the highest per capita execution rate in the world. i am strongly opposed to the death penalty and its abolition is a key objective of the eu's human rights policy and its foreign policy.
written. ‒ implementation of the commitment of the joint comprehensive plan of action, also known as the iran nuclear deal, was followed by the lifting of sanctions, which allowed the resumption of cooperation with iran. the economic benefits of opening iran's market to european companies are mutual, along with the guarantee of increasing stability in the region. iran, as the second largest economy in the middle east, is an important trading partner of the european union. in addition, institutional changes will foster better public information and understanding of the eu in terms of culture, human rights and environmental sustainability. the importance of developing a parliamentary dimension in eu-iran relations aimed at countering terrorism is also underlined. in addition, the eu's political dialogue with iran can seek a constructive role in resolving the political crisis in iraq, yemen, syria, lebanon and afghanistan in order to respect international law and diplomacy based on political priorities as much as possible. i support the report on the eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal by the foreign affairs committee.
written. ‒ the relationship between the european union, its member states, and the international community with respect to iran has moved from a deadlock following a successful agreement on the nuclear weapons ambitions. negotiations between the european union, iran and the p5+1 group of the world's most powerful powers (the us, russia, china, germany, france and the uk) began in 2006 and have intensified recently. the aim of the negotiations was to limit iran's highly sensitive nuclear-related activities in exchange for the lifting of restrictive sanctions. while i wholeheartedly support the efforts of the union and its role in the negotiations to prevent iran from further nuclear armament, i must at the same time stress that the resolution adopted in the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament has unfortunately not put sufficient emphasis on the continuing human rights violations in iran. examples include the execution of minors, the planned ban on women riding bicycles in public, the denial of entry to iran to the un human rights ambassador, and many others. i call on the european union to make a greater effort to address these and similar issues. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i support this report, which re-emphasises the content and recommendations of its resolution on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the european action plan against organised crime, corruption and money laundering needs to be adopted as soon as possible and adequate financial resources and qualified staff need to be allocated to make it as effective as possible.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution because i believe that organised crime is a global threat and as such requires a joint and coordinated response by the eu and its member states. this report welcomes the eighteen-month eu council programme for the dutch, slovak and maltese presidencies, which places a comprehensive and integrated approach to organised crime high on the list of priorities, and stresses that the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering must be a political priority of the eu institutions and therefore cooperation between the police and judicial authorities of the member states is essential. the eu needs to adopt action plans against organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which require adequate financial resources and qualified staff to be effective.
written. ‒ i welcome this report because i believe that the fight against organised crime, particularly in relation to tax fraud, money laundering and corruption, is of the utmost importance. organized crime needs to be seen in its current context with specific areas: crime taking off in the current migration crisis; corruption and crime in the use of public funds; protection of witnesses and those closely associated with the judicial process and many other areas. member states and the european commission have a legal obligation to fight fraud and organised crime. this can best be achieved through openness and cooperation so that member states can share their own good practices in fighting crime. the union should also contribute to the development of the union's external relations, in particular by supporting the union's external relations policy and by promoting the union's external relations. in addition to the efforts of the member states and the union's assistance to them, the verification and effective monitoring of tax fraud at international level is necessary to ensure fair business and financial competition between legal entities and to root out criminal activities that harm absolutely everyone.
written. ‒ the first step in the fight against corruption is to transfer and apply existing instruments to combat various forms of crime in the national legislation of the member states. the commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, organised crime, corruption and money laundering often cross national borders and therefore require cooperation between competent national authorities and between national authorities and relevant eu agencies. it is important that the commission takes concrete measures to improve european cooperation in this area. the provision of the resolution concerning the confiscation of assets of criminal groups and the encouragement of their reuse for social purposes should also be highlighted and supported. i consider the european public prosecutor's office to be also an important element in the fight against corruption. the resolution calls for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office that is independent of national governments and eu institutions and protected from political influence and pressure, and asks the commission to include the fight against organised crime among its powers. while it is justified that terrorism is in particular focus today, the importance of fighting organised crime and corruption must not be forgotten.
written. ‒ organised crime is one of the most serious global problems today, requiring coordinated responses due to the complexity of the phenomenon of criminal associations, i.e. changing modes of operation, diversifying activities by adapting to different social contexts, and threats to the economy in terms of reducing member states' tax revenues and the liability of public projects funded by eu funds. the adoption of a european action plan against organised crime, corruption and money laundering and an integrated approach by member states, with close cooperation between police and judicial authorities, in the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, which should be a political priority for the institutions of the european union, are therefore important. i support the report on the fight against corruption and follow-up to the resolution of the crim committee (2015/2110(ini)) of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
written. ‒ in the last parliamentary term, the european parliament adopted a report on organised crime it called for the establishment of a special committee to analyse criminal activities in the european union (crim) and the role of the home affairs agencies. after the republic of croatia's accession to the european union, i myself had the honour of being a member of the crim board and witnessed the final vote of the report in the committee and at the plenary session. the own-initiative report currently under vote provides an overview of the core and most important recommendations of the crim committee, focusing in particular on those aspects of the report that are currently considered as priorities. i support and find useful many of the calls made in the report, such as the call for increased information sharing between member states, law enforcement cooperation, better protection of 'whistleblowers', greater transparency and the ability to monitor and control money from european funds, analysis of the links between organised crime and terrorism, etc. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, including on the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and on the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on human rights and migration in third countries because the flows of migrants, which are increasing day by day, have important economic, social and political consequences for the countries of origin and destination of migrants. the european union and its member states need to set an example in promoting and protecting the human rights of migrants, particularly within their own borders, in order to be credible actors in the debate on migration and human rights in third countries. this report, which i support, recognises the efforts made by third countries to welcome migrants and refugees and points out that the support systems of these countries face major challenges that can seriously threaten the protection of an increasing number of displaced populations.
written. ‒ the european parliament's motion for a resolution on human rights and migration in third countries focuses on finding an appropriate solution to the frequent violation of the rights of third country migrants. there is no doubt that the gap between migrants and refugees is narrowing today, and that their large numbers around the world mean that we can speak of a global crisis that affects the eu, but also a humanitarian crisis for developing countries, which are often not prepared for the consequences that such a crisis brings. we agree that solidarity and compassion with the victims of forced migration is needed, but also that action is needed to provide a concrete response to this problem. our actions must be guided by a qualitative analysis of the current situation and a consensus on the desired state of affairs in the future. the european union, the member states, the member states, non-governmental organisations and human rights defenders, and ultimately all citizens of the european union, are expected to cooperate sincerely on this issue. although this resolution seeks to provide the right answers, i regret to say that i am concerned about some of its parts and i feel that as a whole it does not provide the right answer to these great challenges of our time and therefore i did not support it.
written. ‒ developing countries are hosting the majority of the world's refugees and migrants. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of persons who have been granted asylum in the member states, including on the number of persons who have been granted asylum in the member states. it is important that the european union and the member states work to tackle the various causes that lead to mass migration. it is also important that member states ratify all international human rights agreements and conventions and apply the norms relating to migrants contained in a number of legal instruments. access to healthcare, employment and training are key objectives that host countries should promote. two groups of migrants are particularly vulnerable, unaccompanied children and this woman. unaccompanied minors are entitled to an additional level of international protection and family reunification must be ensured whenever possible. women and girls are particularly vulnerable, as they are the most vulnerable to trafficking, but also the most difficult to integrate. more efforts are needed to empower migrant women by providing them with the necessary knowledge and social skills, as well as the possibility to learn languages, which is extremely important for socio-cultural inclusion.
written. ‒ according to un estimates, international migration is on the rise. changes in migration flows have important economic, social and political consequences for both the countries of origin and destination of migrants. the integration of migrants in terms of education, employment opportunities and family reunification is one of the most important conditions for achieving the full potential of life in society and avoiding isolated and unstable neighbourhoods for migrants, as is the focus on addressing the economic and political crises triggered by migration in third countries. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken on the migration situation in the host country, in particular the impact of the measures taken on the migration situation in the host country. therefore, i do not support the report on human rights and migration in third countries of the committee on foreign affairs.
written. ‒ i voted against the report because it contains a number of problematic demands. i find unacceptable the constant confusion between the terms 'migrant' and 'refugee' that runs through the report in such a way that the rights normally granted to refugees are extended to a much wider category of migrants without distinguishing between legal and illegal migrants. the only exception is the ecr group amendment, which explicitly requires policymakers to distinguish between the terms refugee and migrant. in addition to delving deeply into areas not under the purview of the foreign affairs committee and the human rights committee of the european parliament such as labour market policies, the report also calls for the establishment of safe and legal migration routes, permanent and compulsory allocation schemes and full social rights for migrants.
written. ‒ i support this report, which reminds corporate actors of their responsibility to respect human rights during their own global operations, regardless of where their users are located and regardless of whether the host country fulfils its own human rights obligations. like other meps, i am deeply concerned about human rights violations committed in third countries, including by some eu corporations and business entities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries, because it is corporations that are one of the main actors of economic globalisation, financial services and international trade and are obliged to respect all applicable laws and international agreements in force, and above all to respect human rights. trade and human rights can be mutually supportive, and the business community can also play an important role in promoting human rights, democracy, environmental standards and responsible business. the eu has a leading role in the negotiation and implementation of a number of global responsibility initiatives, which are closely linked to the promotion and respect of international standards.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is essential to raise awareness that the protection of human rights in the labour market is key to achieving a double benefit - better worker efficiency in the work process, but also a sense of self-respect and dignity for each worker. the european union is a champion of human rights, especially workers' rights. i think it's important to keep a close eye on the enforcement and protection of workers' rights, especially in large corporations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business activities and supply chains are making the role of corporations in ensuring respect for human rights more important and are leading to a situation where international norms, rules and cooperation are crucial to preventing human rights violations in third countries. a coherent legal system, including rules governing access to justice, jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, applicable law and judicial assistance in cross-border situations involving third countries, is the only promising direction for future european union action in the field of human rights and labour rights.
written. ‒ given the serious concern about human rights violations in third countries, including those resulting from the decisions of the management of some eu corporations and companies, i believe it was important to draw attention to the responsibility of corporations to respect human rights in their global activities, regardless of where their users are located and whether or not the host country is fulfilling its human rights obligations. this is an expression of the european parliament's strong support for and implementation of the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. companies, whether european or non-european, are invited to pay due attention to the protection of human rights and to incorporate their findings into internal policies and procedures and to allocate resources and powers accordingly and to apply them properly. the commission was also invited to launch an eu-wide campaign to introduce and promote the ethical business label and to provide incentives for products that are awarded the ethical business label. european corporations should set an example for all others by implementing the un guiding principles on business and human rights.
written. ‒ corporations, as one of the main actors of economic globalisation, are obliged to respect international agreements. the role of corporations in ensuring respect for human rights will become increasingly important in terms of corporate social responsibility as business activities become international, and international standards, rules and cooperation will be crucial for preventing human rights violations in third countries. it is equally important to ensure the coherence of policies on entrepreneurship and human rights at all levels, within and between the institutions of the european union and its member states. the european union is founded on the values of respect for human rights, and i therefore support the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries by the committee on foreign affairs.
written. ‒ the primary focus of this report is to call on corporations doing business in third countries to voluntarily embrace values relating to human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. the report contains entirely legitimate calls which i wholeheartedly support, such as the assumption of legal responsibility by companies in terms of facilitating the process of redress for individual and collective rights that have been violated, the adoption of legally binding instruments dedicated to the effective and efficient protection of human rights, the need to correct legal uncertainty about where exactly responsibility for human rights violations begins, etc. however, what i cannot agree with at all is the call for all proposed legitimate calls to be implemented through the legislation of the eu institutions. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's financial contribution to the union budget is limited to the amount of eur 300000000 in the form of a global loan. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support this report on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. the increase in lng on the global market is a good opportunity for the eu to transform its energy supply. however, i believe that lng is only a temporary solution, whereas we urgently need a long-term reduction of gas dependence within the eu in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to achieve the union's climate and energy objectives.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for lng and gas storage (2016/2059(ini)) as the internal energy market, by including lng and gas storage, has a significant role to play in achieving a resilient energy union. the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one of the elements of the energy union in achieving a sustainable, secure, competitive and independent energy system. the eu lng strategy must be aligned with the framework strategy for a resilient energy union and contribute to greater energy security, decarbonisation, long-term economic sustainability and low energy prices. more cooperation between member states is needed, in particular in the construction of new terminals, infrastructure connectivity and better use of existing potentials, in particular in order to ensure the supply of those countries that depend on one mode of supply. cross-border cooperation should also be achieved in the gas storage sector. it is necessary to continue building the internal gas market and to remove existing barriers.
written. ‒ i supported the eu strategy report on liquefied natural gas and gas storage. i believe that the future of european energy policy lies in the use of energy from renewable sources, energy that does not come from fossil fuels and energy that will be available to our citizens at reasonable prices. however, in order to achieve this worthwhile objective, it is necessary to devise ways of making the european energy market independent of the use of different sources of energy supply and of as many different suppliers as possible. i see lng as one of the options to be considered. the republic of croatia has the potential to exploit gas from the adriatic, which it has been working successfully with italy for years. the project will be implemented in the following areas: in this way, it can ensure the safe reception and transport of this energy in the central european area. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the gas market is still characterised by a high level of competition and that the gas market is still characterised by a high level of competition. it is precisely because of these opportunities offered by this eu strategy that i ask the newly elected croatian authorities to start drafting a new energy strategy as soon as possible so that croatia can fully adapt to today's needs and be included in the current currents of european energy and climate policy.
written. ‒ gas will continue to play an important role in the eu's energy system for decades to come. energy security will be enhanced by better coordination of national energy policies, the establishment of a true energy union with a single energy market and a common energy policy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. support should be provided to the most vulnerable countries to diversify their sources and supply routes. the eu should also actively pursue the development of its own conventional gas sources, such as those discovered in cyprus. it is important to weaken the eu's dependence on the import of energy from authoritarian regimes that violate human rights, in line with the eu's core values. the significant gas reserves in the countries of north africa and recent discoveries in the eastern mediterranean provide the region with the opportunity to become a dynamic hub for gas transport in europe. the development of new upp opportunities in the mediterranean can be the basis for an infrastructure hub. the eu, as the world's second largest importer of liquefied natural gas, needs to play a more proactive role in international energy diplomacy, regulatory development and fostering flexibility and convergence of global gas markets. the ultimate goal is to realise our aspiration to rapidly transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and end our dependence on greenhouse gas emissions. we want to become the world leader in renewable energy.
written. ‒ the european union is the world's second largest importer of liquefied natural gas, so a more proactive policy in international energy diplomacy and better coordination of national energy policies are important for the purpose of equitable affordability of energy supply. the eu lng and gas storage strategy contributes to the european union's goal of moving as soon as possible to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and to making the eu more competitive in the field of renewable energy at the global level. i support the report on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage by the committee on industry, research and energy.
written. ‒ the report on the european union strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage contains many useful points such as increasing energy security, integrating the european energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonising the economy and research, innovation and competitiveness. i also agree with the recognition of the importance of using natural gas as an alternative fuel in transport and with the call for close cooperation between national and regional operators to improve the multi-functionality and usability of infrastructure in maritime and river ports. but i cannot agree with the call to set binding climate and energy targets for 2030. since the targets of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the european union, a share of renewable energy of at least 30% and a 40% increase in energy efficiency are unrealistic, i have abstained.
written. ‒ i support this report which gives the highest priority to fisheries control in order to achieve the objectives of the cfp reform. the upcoming review must set out effective rules to prevent, detect and sanction infringements of the cfp, with an emphasis on greater alignment and increased cooperation in establishing transparent, standardised control procedures. the important role of the efca must also be recognised through an adequate allocation of resources.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report 'how to harmonise fisheries control in europe?' aimed at improving the disparities that exist in european fisheries in terms of regularity, frequency, duration, rigor, thoroughness, effectiveness and methods of fisheries control. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european fisheries control agency. this report calls on member states to ensure the effective implementation of the control regulation in order to ensure the efficient exploitation of living marine resources and to maintain a level playing field for all eu fleets. there is certainly room for improvement in simplifying and improving union legislation and in trying to reduce administrative burdens. the review of the council regulation, which is expected to take place soon, will focus on better implementation of the standards in the different member states, in particular by promoting greater harmonisation, provided that the simplification is based on a solid existing control framework and does not reduce the highest standards in terms of occupational, environmental, trade union or social protection.
written. ‒ i welcome the significant improvement in controls made possible by the adoption of the control regulation in force today, together with the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. this improvement was achieved by consolidating many separate regulations, introducing the possibility of using new technologies, preliminary actions to harmonise sanctions, clarifying the role of the commission and the member states, improving traceability and other benefits. i would like to emphasise here how fishermen's acceptance of eu legislation is also affected by their attitude to whether they consider the effects of implementing the legislation to be fair and the rules imposed to be meaningful. the commission has also proposed that the fishing opportunities for the stocks concerned be increased by a further 5% in order to ensure that the fishing opportunities are not exceeded. that is why i am concerned about the sense of injustice shared by many fishermen in the eu. this raises a difficult question of the uniform application of the rules and, consequently, of their effectiveness. it is questionable whether the rules are applied with unique rigour. if not, that's worrying, because then the same rules don't apply to everyone. it is therefore necessary to identify the shortcomings in the implementation of the rules that give rise to this feeling of injustice and to propose solutions to improve the standardisation of controls of the common fisheries policy. the report by the rapporteur identified the very heart of the problem and, thanks to her work involving a wide range of different stakeholders, i supported this report.
written. ‒ we find significant differences in the application of european regulations in the member states. there is a real inequality, or so fishermen feel, in the control of fisheries in europe. if there is indeed a suspicion that the rules are not applied equally rigorously everywhere, there is a fear that we could find ourselves in a situation where they are no longer respected, because they do not apply equally to everyone. the acceptance of the regulation by fishermen is also influenced by their attitude as to whether they consider the effects of implementation to be fair and the rules imposed to be meaningful and compatible with traditional fisheries. it is also necessary to address the lack of trust and transparency among member states themselves, which is one of the main reasons for non-sharing of data. it is important to strengthen the role of the efca, in particular its budget, powers and human resources. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the fisheries sector in the light of the experience gained in the past. the use of new technologies for real-time monitoring and data transmission and communication is essential to improve maritime surveillance.
written. ‒ the question is whether the methods of controlling fisheries, or the application of the rules, in the european union are equal and effective. the different legal systems of the member states have led to different administrative or criminal sanctions for non-compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to impose a maximum of eur 500000 per year on the fishing fleet in order to ensure that the fishing effort is limited to the minimum necessary. therefore, it is important, inter alia, to simplify the legislation of the european union, to reduce the administrative burden, to enhance cooperation between member states and to implement the legislation in a uniform manner. i support the report on how to harmonise fisheries control in europe by the committee on fisheries.
written. ‒ the report respects the principle of subsidiarity the focus of the report is on how to make fisheries controls in europe uniform, while respecting national competences. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the implementation of the common fisheries policy and the implementation of the common fisheries policy. as the proposals contained in the report are in line with the principle of proportionality and their implementation has the potential to lead to a significant reduction in administrative burden, i voted in favour.
written. ‒ i support this report which states that transport infrastructure across central and eastern europe has improved greatly over the last few years, but that much more needs to be done, in particular on the development of the ten-t core corridors and the comprehensive network.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe (2015/2347 ((ini)) as there is a need to improve the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure to, and within, the central and eastern parts of the eu. transport connectivity is essential for economic development. in this regard, existing plans for the development of the ten-t network, including the extension of that network to the western balkans, should be used. in addition to building new infrastructure, the eu should invest in modernising and completing existing transport infrastructure. it is necessary to exploit the positive effects of synergies between the available resources and instruments of the european structural and investment funds, the european fund for strategic investments, the eib and the ebrd. the european territorial cooperation and the european territorial cooperation group models should be activated more strongly. the activation of eur 11 billion of cohesion policy funds through the connecting europe facility is positive. i welcome the fact that the report highlights the importance of european macro-regional strategies, both those under way and those being planned, with the aim of better connectivity, and the need to reduce the gap in the quality of transport infrastructure between the more developed and the less developed regions of the eu. i would like to remind you that when this document was being prepared, an amendment was adopted, which i proposed together with my colleague joz rados, on the inclusion of the port of rijeka in the baltic-nadran ten-t corridor.
written. ‒ the transport potential and the development of transport infrastructure for the purpose of balanced and sustainable economic growth and development in these parts of the european union is of paramount importance. the development of high-quality transport routes and corridors with a compatible interstate network is also important for ensuring the security of the external borders. croatia needs to be included in key traffic flows, and this will become even more important in the perspective of the enlargement of the european union towards south-eastern europe, after which it has the opportunity to position itself as an important transit point. what i think should be strengthened is the incentive for national governments to maximise the use of resources and to design projects and strategies that follow the eu's basic transport policy guidelines. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the croatian authorities regarding the lack of transparency in the implementation of the law on the protection of personal data. the development of rail transport also has a positive impact on the development of numerous other industries. it is necessary to devise policies to bring passengers back on the railway and, in the broader context, to work on the parallel development of all modes of transport of people and goods, rather than focusing on one type of transport. in croatia, road transport is dominant, little investment has been made to renew rail infrastructure, but there is a positive outlook for future change in the broader european approach.
written. ‒ transport infrastructure in the central and eastern european member states has been largely modernised with constant eu support, but remains underdeveloped compared to that of other european regions. improving transport infrastructure and connectivity in this part of the eu is important for stability, economic development, tourism development, passenger mobility, trade, regional cooperation, but also border security. this report covers all types of transport and highlights multimodal transport. the report focuses on projects that will re-establish links to the west of the eu and on the development of the main ten-t corridors. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the construction and modernisation of road infrastructure should be geared towards solutions that reduce the risk of death or serious injury and that take into account the needs of cyclists. above all, the environment must not be neglected. improving transport infrastructure can have a positive impact on the environment and on the energy efficiency of transport. further development of transport should include solutions that take the environment into account.
written. ‒ high-quality transport infrastructure is one of the engines of economic growth, so the development of an integrated multimodal transport, or ten-t, across europe is important. the european structural and investment funds may be used for the purpose of developing the existing infrastructure of central and eastern europe in order to guarantee full and equal access to the single market with a view to stimulating the economic activities of the european union. the development of corridors to connect northern and south-eastern europe and the extension of the ten-t corridor to the western balkan candidate countries in order to create new business opportunities and boost trade is also important. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
written. ‒ i supported the report of my colleague from the european conservatives and reformists because it also seeks to improve the transport connectivity of central and eastern europe with the north and west. the commission also notes that the aid granted to the airlines in the form of the capital injections was granted to airlines in the form of a capital injection. the report provided the european parliament for the first time with precise guidance and recommendations to the european commission on the development of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe, as well as its support for specific projects in this region where there are still serious shortcomings in the accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure. the report covers road transport, rail transport, inland waterways, maritime transport and airports, and stresses that the needs of cyclists, i.e. the importance of cycling infrastructure, should be taken into account in the construction and modernisation of road infrastructure. in view of the situation of croatian roads, i consider it extremely important to overcome these deficiencies in order to strengthen stability and achieve economic development and regional cooperation in this area.
written. - i support this report. european values are given the highest priority in the treaties and i believe it is high time they were given the highest priority in practice as well.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (2015/2254(inl)) given the need to adopt a framework enabling the union to deal with breaches of eu law and serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights which the eu has included in its core principles and objectives in the first articles of the treaty and in the criteria for eu membership. it calls for the establishment of an eu mechanism for the annual review of the fundamental rights situation in the member states and for the current crisis 'ad hoc' approach to be abolished in the case of observed violations of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu acquis in the candidate countries and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the candidate countries.
written. ‒ a comparison of the version of the european union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights that we have before us today and the initial document tells us about the level of dissatisfaction this proposal has caused both across europe and among meps. a number of compromises have been reached, including those relating to the proposals which i myself made in the amendments tabled, but i cannot help feeling that the objective of this report remains unchanged. this attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of the member states is unacceptable. the treaty on european union clearly states that the union respects the equality of member states before the treaties, as well as their national identities, which are inextricably linked to their fundamental political and constitutional structures, including regional and local self-government. i cannot support such a proposal of the european union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights as i consider it to be incompatible with that principle and the treaty on european union itself.
written. ‒ democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are key principles, enshrined in the treaty articles themselves and in the eu membership criteria. the european commission has the right to intervene to ensure the compliance of national legislation with eu law, and member states do not contest the fact that the eu treaties oblige them to ensure compliance. however, when it comes to implementing the treaty's obligations on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, the european commission's interventions are cautious, arbitrary and met with resistance or complete rejection by member states. an additional problem is that the eu institutions themselves have sometimes failed to respect the key principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. this is why it was necessary to create an integrated mechanism for systematic, impartial and full monitoring of all member states and institutions. it is time to create the right conditions to protect the fundamental european values in practice. i consider the adoption of the eu pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the form of an interinstitutional agreement to be an important step. the new single framework should be objective, evidence-based and apply equally and fairly to all member states and include a preventive and corrective dimension. it will provide for an integrated audit mechanism applicable to all member states as well as to the three main eu institutions.
written. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, and the eu institutions and bodies should serve as an example. the european union does not have a unified mechanism for systematic and impartial monitoring of member states and institutions, although the eu has a number of instruments to ensure respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the european union therefore needs an interinstitutional agreement integrating existing instruments with a view to adopting measures to improve cooperation between the institutions of the european union and its member states within the framework of article 7 teu. i support the report with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
written. ‒ i am strongly opposed to a report which seeks to change the very heart of the treaty on european union by suppressing the principle of subsidiarity. the rapporteur seeks to grossly encroach on the competences of individual member states of the union, and in doing so does not even like to call for inappropriate articles in the treaty on european union, in particular article 7, on the grounds that the sanctioning and punishment mechanism is never activated in practice. the report also makes a point of proposing and explaining in detail the mechanisms that are appropriate to punish 'disobedient children', i.e. member states that dare to violate the fundamental european values. or at least what certain groups in the european parliament hold to be core values. the report gives me an irresistible smell of the possibility of punishing poland and hungary, sovereign member states whose governments are legitimately and legally elected by their peoples, which i find absolutely unacceptable.
mr. president, i welcome the commissioner and the representatives of the council. the proposed changes to the european budget for 2017 are very good and really show that the budget can and must be flexible and i congratulate you commissioner on that, because you have managed to put in a very limited amount of resources and show how much we can respond to the challenges that await us in 2017. the priority given to security, the desire to significantly accelerate investment in preventing the causes of the migration crisis, and this is why payments have been increased by as much as 25,1%. we also heard from colleagues that the amounts for erasmus+, cosme, the new european fund for strategic investments, which is of course important for boosting competitiveness, youth employment and everything else, have been increased. i am personally concerned, as are many of my colleagues who have spoken today, about the proposed 23.5% reduction in payments for cohesion policy. we can't live with that. these are projects in which we must invest now and we must do everything we can to speed up their implementation, because they guarantee jobs, growth and development.
mr president, i welcome the vice-president, the representatives of the european commission and the council. year after year, we repeat the same thing, and we know that the prerequisites for growth and investment are structural reform, smart fiscal consolidation that leaves room for innovation, research and development, and thoughtful policies that help entrepreneurial projects and boost competitiveness. we also note that specific recommendations are not being implemented, that more synergies and coordination are needed between european policies and instruments and also with national policies and budgets. what's missing? what does it take to get better results and better execution? i believe that for better implementation and concrete results in practice we need: 1. more concrete examples of successful change and development projects in the member states that we highlight and encourage all member states to make similar strides; 2. more benchmarks by which we will monitor the success of the coordination of national policies and eu objectives; 3. more exchanges of knowledge and experience, not only between member states, but also the use of successful examples outside the european union. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal and the introduction of a support programme for the implementation of structural reforms. this is an important step in helping member states to answer the question of how to design and implement reforms. we need more practical instruments and incentives, but within the framework of existing regulations, to build trust and clarify the desire and the will for change.
madam president, i have many years of experience working with disabled and special needs citizens or their associations and i have to say, i remember the time when the first telephones came and then when the smart phones came, how much joy and happiness it was for many of them. also, experience related to public sector service, related to e-payments or e-communications is something that has proven to be extremely valuable. putting this together in one report like this is something i strongly support and i want to say as someone who has for 20 years really tried to make life easier and barrier-free in some way, because this current way in which we intend through this directive to create a new quality of life, to create an inclusive society for some 80 million people with special needs in europe, is something that requires the full and strong support of all of us. and in closing, i just want to add this: the next step has to be free wi-fi for everyone. juncker has announced this, and we must give him our full support to make it happen.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much indeed for all your remarks. i would like to react to florent marcellesi, who asked about the commission’s timelines. the commission is aware of the acts that it has to adopt after the regulation enters into force and also all the legal deadlines to adopt those acts. the commission services are currently working on a timeline to ensure that all those acts are adopted in a timely manner. one of those acts will be a list of priority pests, which will be a delegated act. i agree that we should prevent the entry of high-risk plants. the commission, indeed, will have to adopt, within two years of the adoption of the regulation, a list of plants, including fruits and vegetables, the import of which will be banned until a full risk assessment proves that they are safe. it is still too early for the commission to indicate the content of such a list. of course, as i said, the member states will have the essential role in controlling borders and putting the necessary resources in place. honourable members, i am grateful to parliament for its important contribution, its hard work and its constructive approach in the development of this file. in particular, i wish to thank the rapporteurs, mr fajmon under the previous term, and ms mcintyre under the current term of the european parliament, for reaching an agreement in the political negotiation. i also thank the shadow rapporteurs of the previous and current terms of the european parliament and the teams involved in the negotiations for all the strenuous efforts they have made. i hope that we can now take the final step in bringing this important file to a successful and satisfactory conclusion.
written. plant pests know no boundaries. many chestnut forests in europe are known to be infected, the olive tree disaster in southern italy is known, and the pest is known to affect many imported plants. the insufficiently controlled import of plants infected by pests that have no natural enemies in europe is a major threat to our biodiversity. i support measures that will introduce more controls and more obligations for importers in terms of stronger phytosanitary safety.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, science is very precise. science has proven that trans fatty acids are dangerous to human health, that they worsen health, and unfortunately this is especially present in young people who, due to their diet, often fast food products, consume large amounts of trans fatty acids which surely affect their health later on. the science is very clear on this, but the market is something else. trans-fatty acids are cheap, but they're harmful. we would say that trans fats can be tasty because they give the product its strength, but they're harmful. we, the honourable commissioner, must start from the fact that trans fatty acids are harmful. how do you replace them? palm oil is oiled by possible sources of saturated acids. however, we know about the palm oil problem and all that's happening in terms of the environmental damage. i wonder if we could invest enough resources to use olive oil, which we know is very healthy and we have a lot of it in europe today and the market is saturated with this product as well. i think the european commission should think along those lines.
written. trans-fatty acids are naturally found in food obtained from mammals, in some plants, and in human breast milk. however, most of the trans fatty acids consumed are industrially produced. thus, intake of trans-fatty acids is also mainly associated with consumption of industrial food products. there is evidence of health risks associated with the consumption of trans fatty acids and the cause of obesity in humans. i believe that the european institutions should take certain measures to protect the health of european citizens, which primarily relates to better information through the education system. i also believe that a policy aimed at limiting the proportion of trans fatty acids in food products is necessary. i see this motion for a resolution as a step towards more effective information on the harmful effects of the consumption of industrial trans-fatty acids and as the beginning of the development of a strategy to limit their use. i am convinced that a decision on trans-fatty acids at eu level would have a positive impact on public health.
madam president, one of the main challenges facing the commission is how to position the european union as a global leader in trade and ensure the new period of accelerated growth that europe has witnessed since the second world war. the development of ceta shows that a large number of our citizens feel threatened by a single canada, so i think it is illusory to expect that we will be able to reach an agreement with global giants like the united states, india, china or russia in the foreseeable future. none of this happens by accident. citizens are losing trust in the political elite, and the commission has contributed to this by doing too little to inform citizens and allowing populists to monopolize public communication about ceta and ttip. the commission has not yet succeeded in convincing anyone, including myself, that these agreements will not benefit exclusively the multinational corporations, while small and mediumsized enterprises will only get a crumb. this is an important issue and the commission must make it clear to the citizens and to us as their representatives.
madam president, mr tusk, mr timmermans, the fact is that at the beginning of this migrant crisis, we raised the question and said that we must be solidarity and responsible. today we can ask ourselves if we have achieved that. the fact is that europeans feel insecure. and because of ceta and because of migration and because of other relationships. we must do everything to make the decisions of both the commission and the council enforceable, and that is what we must all contribute to. we must make sure the treaty with turkey remains in force. he closed the western balkans route, and today we have maybe a dozen migrants, as opposed to the thousands of migrants who used to go through that route. we must do everything to ensure that the decisions of the commission and the council can be implemented. many feel insecure because we can't implement the decisions we've made, and that's what we all need to insist on together. we have to find a way to defeat the false arguments against ceta. many people do not realize that globalization exists today and that we have accepted globalization by the very fact that the european union must become a factor on the scene. i am in favour of strengthening the role of the european commission's external action service and giving the high representative mogherini greater powers. europe must be a factor. when we talk about migration, we have to deal with it in the country of origin. how are we going to deal with them in the country of origin if the european union is not a factor at the table with the big players. i therefore ask you all to find a compromise together and to allow the council and the commission to continue their work, of course in cooperation with parliament.
madam president, the migrant crisis is definitely undermining the foundations of the european union. solving the problem with frontex, solving the problem with turkey are certainly paths that are welcome. however, the problem will not be solved unless we become united among ourselves. we cannot look, as if blindly, at what is happening in greece or what is happening in italy. without solidarity between the member states, the european project as conceived is meaningless because the migration crisis may one day be a little smaller, a little bigger. the western balkans route is currently closed in some way, but the migration will not stop. and i want to say, when we are talking about the western balkans route, that it is really a shame what we are experiencing from the government of the republic of slovenia that is erecting walls and wires towards the member country, towards croatia.
written. the european union is facing major challenges this year that will directly affect the future of us all. the uk's withdrawal from the union, european instruments for trade and defence, migration challenges, eu-russia relations, the eu-canada economic and trade agreement are just some of the topics on which the european council president donald tusk and commission president jean-claude juncker briefed us at the last european parliament session in strasbourg. i agree with the position of the european leaders that relations with the uk must remain extremely close, but also that the rights granted to britain must be in line with the obligations it will assume. it's encouraging the importance of the last day of the summit in supporting the cessation of the conflict in syria. i believe that stronger eu foreign policy action is needed, especially to protect christians who are particularly vulnerable to persecution and murder. of course, i am also pleased to see progress on migration and the announcement of the strengthening of the agreement with turkey, which should lead to a further decrease in the number of migrants crossing the so-called 'balkan route'. the debate which took place on wednesday between parliament and the president of the council and the commission shows the strong desire of the main eu institutions to find quick and high-quality solutions and i support the view that it is important to stop unnecessary bickering over good parliament proposals.
written. ‒ i support this report on the draft general budget of the european union for 2017.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2017 - all parts, because i believe that the budget must be flexible, in line with the challenges the eu is currently facing, and that it should respect the guidelines of the main eu policies. the european union needs stronger growth and more jobs, and to achieve this it is essential to provide the necessary financial and other resources. on the other hand, cohesion policy is the eu's main investment policy and should therefore not be called into question. security and civil challenges are a key issue facing the eu at present and i support the additional funds allocated to them accordingly. the union should certainly strengthen its external action to be able to cope with and represent the interests of its citizens at the global level. i believe that the 2017 budget contains realistic aspects of the needs that lie ahead of us and i therefore support it.
the resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 reflects the political priorities adopted by parliament by a large majority in its resolution on general guidelines of 9 march 2016 and in its resolution of 6 july 2016. unfortunately, the council reduced the level of appropriations under title 2 by eur 179.5 million in commitments and eur 198 million in payments. unfortunately, rural development is the most affected by this reduction and i am pleased that parliament is calling for the current level of cap funding to be maintained. welcomes the fact that the european parliament is calling for an increase of eur 600 million in appropriations above the level provided for in the draft budget, in order to neutralise the effects of the crisis in the dairy sector and the consequences of the russian embargo in the dairy sector; i have myself pointed out this problem many times in my amendments to previous resolutions and reports of the european parliament. i think that special attention should be paid to the position of primary producers. i also welcome parliament's efforts to increase funding for research and innovation in agriculture under horizon 2020 and reiterate parliament's position, which i have held for many years, that priority should be given to projects involving primary producers. for all of the above, i voted in favour of this resolution.
written. ‒ the 2017 budget must be in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which is its main objective. we are facing a series of crises and challenges that were not possible to foresee at the time the previous vfo was prepared. additional funding is needed to find a solution. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). the commission should be able to make use of the appropriations made available to it under the multiannual financial framework for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. the union should be able to contribute to the development of the union's energy sector, including through the development of the union's energy sector, and to the development of the union's energy sector. the additional resources for europol staff are also needed. we are facing increased threat levels in several member states, with parallel challenges posed by the management of migration, the fight against terrorism and organised crime. the guarantee of further support for candidate and potential candidate countries in adopting and implementing reforms must continue. respect for our core values is key to the enlargement process. we must be able to respond effectively to the challenges ahead.
written. ‒ the political priorities of the 2017 eu budget are focused on maintaining peace and stability, combating terrorism, humanitarian aid and addressing the refugee and migrant crisis. however, this should not neglect the instruments for job creation and investment in the future of young people. the most important investments of the european union should continue to be in the area of cohesion and development policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the area of climate change and its impact on the environment, in particular through the implementation of the paris agreement. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i support this report as a major step towards addressing the current challenges facing the european union and towards greater development and a better future for european citizens.
written. ‒ i voted against this budget proposal, because it again oversteps the bounds of parliament's powers by seeking to increase the union budget by a staggering €4.13 billion at the expense of the budgets of individual member states. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget to finance the expenditure referred to in article 1 (2) of regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 of the european parliament and of the council. i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that the budget of the european union should be subject to the same rigorous rules as those applied to the budgets of the individual member states. i am aware of the many challenges that changed circumstances have brought to the european union since 2013, when the mff was adopted, but i firmly believe that solutions to the new circumstances can be found in an efficient and effective reallocation within the existing budget, for example through the abolition of the so-called 'traveling circus' in strasbourg, with a saving of eur 180 million per year.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, because i consider that the draft budget is ultimately balanced and in line with the union's main political priorities. i believe that a balance needs to be struck between long-term priorities and new challenges, and that the budget must be based on the principles of transparency, consistency and efficiency and in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that the structural and investment funds are essential for the uniform development of the eu, especially to ensure territorial and social cohesion, and therefore i think that their reduction is unacceptable. the european union is facing unforeseen situations and challenges, but key european development policies must be preserved. in this context, i support the additional funds provided to alleviate the migration crisis and the efforts to boost overall growth and employment.
‒ the draft budget of the european union for 2017 shows how the budget can and must be flexible. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enif). the amounts for contracting and paying for erasmus+, cosme, the new european fund for strategic investments and other competitiveness instruments have also been increased to accelerate growth and increase youth employment. for all of the above, i have endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i support this resolution and commend the support of up to eur 500 million to the european dairy sector and the eur 100 million allocated to farmers affected by the russian embargo. as i come from croatia, a country where unemployment is a big problem, i can also say that i am particularly pleased that under this draft the youth employment initiative continues at the same level as it was envisaged, as young people in croatia speak with praise about this initiative. i am pleased that all the cuts linked to horizon 2020 have been returned to the basic budgetary guidelines, and i am particularly pleased about the agreed increase for some programmes such as erasmus or cosme, which should be very significant for our small and medium-sized enterprises.
the political priorities of the 2017 eu budget are focused on maintaining peace and stability, combating terrorism, humanitarian aid and addressing the refugee and migrant crisis. however, this should not neglect the instruments for job creation and investment in the future of young people. the most important investments of the european union should continue to be in the area of cohesion and development policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the area of climate change and its impact on the environment, in particular through the implementation of the paris agreement. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i support this report as a major step towards addressing the current challenges facing the european union and towards greater development and a better future for european citizens.
written. ‒ i voted against this budget proposal, because it again oversteps the bounds of parliament's powers by seeking to increase the union budget by a staggering €4.13 billion at the expense of the budgets of individual member states. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget to finance the expenditure referred to in article 1 (2) of regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 of the european parliament and of the council. i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that the budget of the european union should be subject to the same rigorous rules as those applied to the budgets of the individual member states. i am aware of the many challenges that changed circumstances have brought to the european union since 2013, when the mff was adopted, but i firmly believe that solutions to the new circumstances can be found in an efficient and effective reallocation within the existing budget, for example through the abolition of the so-called 'traveling circus' in strasbourg, with a saving of eur 180 million per year.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the mff mid-term review report 2014 2020 (2016/2931(rsp)) which highlights the concern about the lack of funds available within the current multiannual financial framework and the problem of new crises and priorities that have emerged in the past period, in particular in relation to the refugee and migrant crisis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) for growth. it is necessary to ensure for the remaining years of the current financial perspective a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget which must strike a balance between meeting the union's long-term political priorities and responding to new challenges. parliament takes a positive view of the proposed changes to the mff, but regrets that the commission has not proposed to increase the current mff ceilings, in particular with regard to important policies such as competitiveness for growth and employment; economic, social and territorial cohesion; security and citizenship; and a global europe. the mid-term review of the mff should serve as a good basis for the consensus process on the mff for the period after 2020, which should also be included in the reform of the own resources system.
written. ‒ the european parliament's concern about the lack of funds available under the multiannual financial framework (mff) stems from a number of new priorities that have emerged in recent years, namely the migration and refugee crisis, internal security issues, the crisis in agriculture, european fund for strategic investments (efsi) funding and the persistently high unemployment rate, especially among young people. the union's financial contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance should be limited to the amount of eur 500000000 in commitment appropriations and eur 500000000 in payment appropriations. the commission should be able to request the european parliament and the council to adopt the draft amending budget for the financial year 2017 by means of a special legislative procedure. the commission intends to simplify the financial rules, which is an important conclusion for the mid-term review, and the simplification itself must be aimed at improving and implementing the user environment. the mid-term review of the mff should also be the start of the alignment process that is important for post-mff 2020, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i believe we all share the concern about the lack of funds available within the current multiannual financial framework (mff). we are witnessing the emergence of new crises and priorities whose scale we could not have foreseen a few years ago. the refugee and migration crisis, internal security problems and various unforeseen external situations, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments and the long-term high unemployment rate pose major challenges to our community. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. as some of the commendations in the commission's statement on this subject, i highlight the announcement of the simplification of financial rules and the extension of flexibility provisions which have already proved crucial to funding the response to the migration crisis and a number of new policy initiatives. the eu budget simply has to be aligned with its political commitments and strategic objectives. the credibility of the european union itself is at stake and i therefore vote in favour of this resolution on the mid-term review of the mff 2014-2020 and call on the council to take responsibility, to put words and deeds in harmony and to guarantee a realistic, sustainable and credible budget for the remaining years of the current financial perspective.
written. ‒ the european parliament has previously expressed its concern about the lack of budgetary resources available within the current multiannual financial framework (mff). the problem is a series of serious crises that have emerged over the past few years, in particular the migration and refugee crisis, internal security problems, external unforeseen situations, the crisis in the agricultural sector, high levels of youth unemployment, environmental challenges, etc. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the cfp. i welcome the commission's decision to propose a revision of the mff. the eu's crisis reserve is an important provision as an instrument for responding promptly to crises and unforeseen situations with serious humanitarian or security implications. the mobilisation of this specific instrument in the event of a crisis will provide an effective solution for additional funding if needed in the given situation. the commission notes that the increase in the number of vessels from the current quota to the current quota is due to the increase in the number of vessels from the current quota to the current quota. the ceilings for competitiveness for growth and jobs, economic, social and territorial cohesion, security and citizenship and global europe are inadequate and need to be revised to higher levels if the eu is to respond to the challenges it faces and meet its policy objectives.
written. ‒ there is a clear lack of the resources needed to achieve the eu's objectives and policies as set out in the multiannual financial framework (mff). in the past few years, unforeseen crises have arisen which require an audit of the vfo. the new priorities relate primarily to the large-scale migration and refugee crisis that has engulfed europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy. i support the motion for a resolution on the mid-term review of the mff 2014-2020, as i believe that the mff review provides an opportunity to overcome the current budgetary difficulties.
‒ the basic function of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is to set limits on the amount of money the european union can spend each financial year. the commission announced last month a proposal for a revision of the multiannual financial framework in the middle of the programming period, requesting a budget increase of €3.8 billion. as the tendency of the majority of the groups in the european parliament is to link this proposal to the vote on the 2017 budget, and in line with the reasons for my opposition to the draft budget, this proposal did not receive my support either.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request by estonia egf/2016/003/ee/oil and chemicals) as support for workers affected by the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis is needed to help them re-enter the labour market. estonia has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the economic sectors of coke and refined petroleum products, and chemicals and chemical products. it provides for measures to cover 800 of the 1 550 redundant workers eligible for the egf, by providing them with tailor-made services paid training costs, compensation for training costs for employers, labour market training, work placements, psychological counselling, fees for participation in formal education, tuition fees, travel costs, etc. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
‒ the eu has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to support workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes, to help them re-enter the labour market. the union financial assistance provided to workers declared redundant should be dynamic and available as soon as possible. as estonia is not divided into nuts level 2 regions, it is envisaged that 800 of the 1550 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution will be covered by the measures. the commission has determined that the conditions laid down in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and that estonia is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 131 358, corresponding to 60% of the total cost, for services adapted to the needs of the workers made redundant, in accordance with that regulation. estonia has applied for egf assistance and it has proved to be a valuable instrument to help workers from smaller and less-favoured union countries. since it is of the utmost importance to increase the employment opportunities of all workers, i am voting in favour of this report.
written. ‒ as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers facing the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows, in the context of the proposal to mobilise the egf in favour of estonia to support the reintegration of surplus workers into the labour market, it fulfils precisely its purpose. the claim relates to 800 workers declared surplus and provides: support for formal education; compensation for the cost of training for employers; labour market training; learning the estonian language; work experience; debt counselling; psychological counselling; compensation for participation in formal education; tuition, travel and accommodation allowance during the learning of the estonian language; mobility allowance. the welfare of workers should always be our first priority and so we should do everything necessary to get the workers who have been made redundant back into the labour market. since the application qualifies for a financial contribution from the egf and the package of measures proposed is in line with the needs identified in the estonian regional development strategy 2014-2020 and the estonian authorities have provided all the necessary guarantees, i support this proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of estonia.
written. ‒ estonia's economy, which relies heavily on the export of goods and services, has been severely affected by the recent turmoil in the world oil market and the general deterioration of europe's position in international trade. the eu has lost its leading position in global chemical sales to china, with the rest of asia and the us increasingly involved. the eu has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and the financial and economic crisis. on 28 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of estonia to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers declared redundant in three enterprises in ida-virumaa county. the commission notes that the estonian authorities have not provided any evidence that the redundancies were caused by the same reasons as the redundancies in the other sectors. aid to redundant workers should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i believe that the egf could be a particularly valuable instrument to help workers from union countries with smaller economies and less advantaged.
written. ‒ the european union has set up some instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of the economic crisis and major changes in international trade, to help them re-enter the labour market. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the instruments envisaged. large redundancies affect the local and regional economy, especially in countries with smaller and disadvantaged economies. the purpose of the egf is to provide financial assistance to workers declared redundant. in the event of an application by estonia to mobilise the egf, parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions foreseen for estonia to be entitled to financial assistance for services adapted to the needs of redundant workers are fulfilled. therefore, i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
written. ‒ estonia has applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following redundancies in the economic sectors of coke and refined petroleum products and chemicals and chemical products. joint actions have been proposed to be financed with the requested amount of eur 1,1 million and cover, inter alia, payment of training costs, compensation of training costs for employers, labour market training, mobility allowance and the like. the report states that the european union has lost its leading position in global chemical sales, that the fall in oil prices has reduced estonia's mineral fuel exports and that a large part of the industries in estonia are dependent on oil and gas prices. the commission notes that the measures in force are not intended to restore the viability of the union industry. the long-term solution is to stimulate production and the development of the european union's economy through cutting red tape and lowering taxes. that's why i voted against it.
written. - i support this report. we live in a digital age and all citizens should be treated equally when it comes to access to information. this directive is an important step towards an inclusive digital society, ensuring that websites and mobile applications will need to be accessible to everyone in public sector bodies.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the facilitation of the use of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies (09389/1/2016 c8-0360/2016 2012/0340(cod)) as it seeks to ensure dignity, equal rights, facilitate life, improve its quality and provide new opportunities for better integration into working, social and private life of older persons and persons with disabilities. the digital age brings new opportunities, but also new obstacles. this law brings new solutions that should bring the e-government even closer to being accessible to all, and especially to citizens with disabilities. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for access to the internet for the provision of electronic communications services by public sector bodies. i support this law which should be adopted as soon as possible and applied at all levels of public authority in the eu and the member states.
written. ‒ in 2012, the commission presented its proposal for a directive on the accessibility of public sector websites aiming to present accessibility for all users. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and on the environment in the member states. the commission should also be able to use the information contained in the annual report to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment. the directive aims to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning accessibility for all users of content on the websites of public sector bodies. the directive will set minimum conditions for the accessibility of websites and requires regular monitoring and reporting on their accessibility by member states. thanks to the efforts of parliament, the directive also covers mobile applications and its scope has been extended to all public sector bodies. the directive also allows individuals to request certain information 'on request' if the content is not available. in addition, users have the possibility to report any irregularities of the website or application. as citizens will benefit from wider access to online public sector services, i supported this recommendation.
written. ‒ establishing a website for public bodies offering information and services essential for citizens' participation in society and the economy, such as information on tax, social security, vehicle registration, identity documents, etc. are of public interest. citizens, especially the elderly and the disabled, have difficulty accessing this information. therefore, efforts should be made to design such websites in a way that is accessible and easy to use - that users can easily and consistently view and search pages with easy interaction and understanding of the content. i support this directive because it requires the establishment and harmonisation of the laws and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the accessibility of public authorities' websites, which is what this directive requires. it also sets out technical provisions on how member states will make the website available to all. this directive is important in order to improve the market for digital access services and to enable access for all citizens, in particular older people and persons with disabilities. all in all, it is crucial to allow users to give their opinions, criticisms and suggestions so that websites like this can continue to develop.
written. ‒ we are creating a digital society in europe and we need new ways of accessing information and services. public sector bodies, as well as other providers, increasingly rely on the internet to produce, collect and offer a wide range of information and services of fundamental importance to the public. we must also take into account all our citizens with disabilities when creating the site, bearing in mind the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for access to the internet for the purposes of the provision of electronic communications networks and services. the number of websites offering public services is increasing and further work on harmonising national measures at eu level is needed. we need to end market fragmentation and the loss of faith in the online supply of services. we need to make it easier for citizens with disabilities to access public services online, to help them enjoy their rights across our union. this is an important step towards a digital society in which all citizens participate.
written. ‒ i supported the directive on the ease of access to the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies which aims to ensure better accessibility of these bodies, in particular for people with disabilities. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the disabled on the labour market and on the social and economic situation of disabled people. i consider the requirement for public sector bodies to explain the reasons why certain content is not accessible to be particularly important, as this can ensure transparency and information for citizens, and the new rules that make significant progress in accessibility for the blind, visually impaired and hearing impaired are also extremely useful. this concerns in particular the possibility to change the size or colour of the text, the introduction of a text-to-speech function and a function to describe images, and the search without using the mouse. as this will in practice improve the accessibility of public sector bodies' content, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support this report on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants. i believe that the new law will ensure a high degree of security for the european union with regard to the import of plants and plant products. under the new system, importing some pests will be much more difficult, and the new quarantine measures will be tailored to each case and farmers will be supported in their eradication procedures, with compensation for their loss.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft european parliament resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants and amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 of the parliament and of the council and repealing council directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec, as plant protection is essential to achieve the sustainability and competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector. it is necessary to preserve european biodiversity and to prevent the introduction of pests on imported plants. therefore, i consider it necessary to strengthen preventive measures to avoid infection and to strengthen controls in the form of successful phytosanitary safety. the rapid response system to possible infections contributes to the prevention of economic damage and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the current union regulatory framework for plant health (directive 2000/29/ec) aims to protect european agriculture and forestry and prevent the entry and spread of foreign pests. this system is necessary to protect the health, the economy and the competitiveness of the eu plant production sector and to maintain an open trade policy of the union. however, this framework has been criticised for its inability to stop the inflow of new plant-damaging organisms. the proposed amendment replaces and repeals directive 2000/29/ec which seeks to establish a transparent and sustainable regulatory framework for plant health, and i therefore voted against the proposal to reject the council's position.
written. ‒ we are witnessing the difficult moments recently experienced by italian olive growers following the destruction of their centenary olive groves by the bacterium xylella fastidiosa (wells et al.) which spread there from south america by importing infected plants into the european union through a european port. the agricultural sector is of paramount importance to europe, and an important part of it is the concern for phytosanitary protection. the introduction of invasive alien species into the union market is a major threat to the union's agricultural production and can cause significant economic damage. the general objective of the proposed regulation is to respond to the increased risks we are facing in the phytosanitary sector, which result in the emergence of new pests and new diseases. the proposal seeks to modernise trade-related phytosanitary instruments, either within the eu (improved traceability in the internal market) or from third countries, and gives priority to precautionary measures. in order to combat this problem successfully, it is necessary, inter alia, to ensure that the import of plants at risk can be suspended until a full risk assessment has been carried out, to establish control mechanisms for importers and users of plants at risk, and to establish a specific research programme to ensure that dangerous pests are detected in a timely manner. all the necessary measures are contained in the draft act. i support the recommendation and hope that this proposal will ultimately be adopted.
written. ‒ i support better surveillance and earlier prevention of the spread of new pests. plant health is key to promoting a sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry sector. the eu plant health regime is the cornerstone of the health protection and economic sustainability of the plant production sector. this is why it is important to stop the entry and spread of foreign harmful species that are able to spread rapidly if there is no genetic resistance within the eu. i welcome the temporary ban on products that pose a potential risk, as well as the introduction of a 'plant passport' to better track their origin and distribution across the union. i am convinced that the new regulation will ensure a high level of security for the eu when it comes to the import of plants and plant products.
‒ the european union must protect european agriculture and forestry from the introduction and spread of plant pests from other continents. these organisms are particularly dangerous because they threaten biodiversity and ecosystems. the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, the commission has also proposed to amend the list of authorisations for plant protection products in the union to include plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection products for plant protection purposes. in addition, the proposed solutions have avoided unnecessary increase in bureaucracy, which i particularly support. these are the reasons why i voted for this report.
written. - i support this report. the eu and the member states need to better implement the revised economic policy mix, which aims to increase investment in the eu 2020 policy objectives, including quality employment, education and innovation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the 2016 priorities (2016/2101(ini)) which states that unfortunately the eu's economic recovery is still very slow and with unsatisfactory economic growth. the eu economy will grow less than expected, with euro area gdp expected to grow by only 1.6% and reach 1.8% by 2017. the high rate of youth unemployment and the wide disparity in economic performance between different parts of the eu remain a particular concern. the importance of coherence between cohesion policy instruments and the broader economic governance framework is recognised in order to support recovery efforts in order to achieve alignment with the rules of the european semester. unfortunately, the economic situation is still characterised by excess liquidity and zero lower bound interest rates, weak demand and limited investment and consumption by households and economic operators. the new policy mix presented by the commission needs to be implemented to stimulate growth, as monetary policy alone is not sufficient to stimulate growth if other elements such as investment and sustainable structural reforms are lacking.
written. ‒ we repeat the same thing year after year and we all know that the prerequisites for growth are: investment, structural reforms and smart fiscal consolidation that leaves room for innovation, research and development, thoughtful policies that encourage entrepreneurial projects and boost competitiveness. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take the necessary measures to ensure that the union's financial instruments are used effectively. to change this, we need more concrete examples of successful change and development projects in the member states that we highlight and motivate all member states to take similar steps, more benchmarks by which we will monitor the success of the coordination of national policies and eu objectives, and a greater exchange of knowledge and experience, not only between member states, but also the use of successful examples outside the eu. i welcome the commission's proposal and the introduction of a support programme for the implementation of structural reforms. this is an important step in helping member states to answer the question of how to design and implement reforms. we need more practical instruments and incentives, but within the framework of existing regulations, to build trust and strengthen the political will and will to implement change in the member states, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ only aware of all the complexities of the situation in which the european union finds itself today, which are strongly expressed in this area as well. the current account surplus of the balance of payments continues to grow, but we still face a large investment deficit despite theoretically favourable conditions for private and public investment supported by often extremely low interest rates on government borrowing. member states, and particularly those on the periphery of the union, are still struggling to cope with high unemployment, with a worryingly high proportion of young people out of work. i support this resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2016, which clearly sets out the many investment challenges facing europe in the light of the slowdown in world economic growth this year, followed by the priorities and targets of the recommendations, as well as the policy responses and concrete conclusions. i welcome and encourage the commission's approach of limiting the number of recommendations and focusing the semester on key macroeconomic and social priorities in setting policy objectives for the next 18 months, as well as the improved policy mix we requested in the parliamentary resolution on the 2016 annual growth survey.
written. ‒ the commission forecast shows expected growth rates of 1.6% in the euro area and 1.8% for the eu in 2016, meaning that the eu economy will grow less than expected. the long economic crisis has highlighted the need to facilitate investment in areas such as education, innovation, research and development. i support the commission's recommendations for three member states to exit the excessive deficit procedure (edp) as well as the large number of csrs supporting a functioning and integrated single market. unlike last year's report, this report focuses on socially balanced structural reforms and increased investment, which is of course a positive change. the report clearly focuses on the need to increase investment in the eu to achieve growth, to create and maintain quality jobs and to combat high levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality. the report also proposes the introduction of a social imbalance procedure in the design of csrs and calls on the commission to deliver on its promise to introduce a european minimum income to cover the basic cost of living.
written. ‒ the european union is currently experiencing slow economic growth and an investment deficit. inflation is below zero, unemployment is rising, and the number of people threatened with poverty and social exclusion is increasing. the international situation, particularly shaped by brexit, relations with russia and mass migration, affects investment in the european union. to increase economic growth, productivity and the eu's competitiveness in the market, investments are needed in transport, telecommunications, digitalisation, environmental protection, education, and research and innovation. implementing cohesion policy, providing recovery support to certain member states and bringing the eu closer to its citizens are also important. i support the european semester report on economic policy coordination and the implementation of priorities for 2016 as it supports the functioning of the single market, investment in the european union and measures for growth and economic recovery.
written. ‒ this own-initiative report analyses the european semester as part of the european union's annual cycle of economic governance and surveillance policy. in particular, in the first quarter of the year, the commission begins a detailed analysis of the budgetary plans of individual member states, including an analysis of macroeconomic and structural reforms. the commission shall base its publication of the specific recommendations for each member state on this analysis in may of each year. the report is parliament's response to the commission's publication. i voted against because i think the report's focus has gone completely wrong instead of focusing on the importance of implementing structural reforms in individual member states of the union, the report identified weak public demand and a deteriorating international environment as key challenges facing europe on the road to economic recovery.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must act against the epidemic of obesity and related diseases as it is probably the greatest long-term threat to public health. according to the world health organization, over 50% of europeans are overweight, and we have the worst death rate in the world from cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer. the main reason for this is the diet and the unhealthy composition of the food. it is estimated that cardiovascular diseases kill 660 000 people in the european union every year, and industrial trans fats have been identified as the single most harmful ingredient. their share in the food produced is legally limited by the commission because the common market makes national measures ineffective. even the big food companies have realized this and are reducing the amount of trans fats in their products. i supported this resolution and i hope that the commission will act as soon as possible because the price we pay in terms of the cost of treatment and illness and human lives is simply too high.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on trans-fatty acids primarily because of the negative health effects they have. this is a major problem among young people who frequently consume fast food and thus consume excessive amounts of these cheap but harmful acids. the second problem is that a large percentage of consumers are not aware of what trans-fatty acids are and what the negative consequences are. i therefore support the proposal to limit the amount of these in products and to launch information campaigns on the health effects of trans-fatty acids. i think olive oil, for example, could be a healthy and effective alternative to trans-fatty acids.
written. ‒ a high consumption of industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils is associated with increased risks of cardiovascular disease, infertility, endometriosis, gallstones, alzheimer's disease, diabetes, obesity and some cancers. the efsa recommendation is to reduce trans-fatty acid intake as much as possible within a diet that meets nutritional needs. international studies show that policies aimed at limiting the amount of trans fatty acids in food lead to a reduction in the level of trans fatty acids without increasing the total fat content, and eu legislation does not prescribe the amount of trans fatty acids in food products or require their labelling. the corresponding decisions to reduce the level of intake of industrial trans-fatty acids should be taken at eu level. since consumers are not aware of the negative health effects of trans fatty acids, mandatory labelling of trans fatty acids is an important step towards reducing the intake of trans fatty acids among european citizens, and i therefore supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution asking the european commission to propose within two years a legal limit on the level of industrial trans-fatty acids in food products. trans fat consumption has been linked to increased risks of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, infertility, gallstones, endometriosis, alzheimer's disease, and some forms of cancer. in addition, in view of the increasing prevalence and spread of obesity, including in children, i welcome the efforts of the european parliament to adopt, in cooperation with the commission, the necessary acts to reduce the level of dietary intake of trans-fatty acids. although croatia has regulations that limit the level of trans-fatty acids in food, the single market requires that this problem be regulated at european level. that is where i see the value of this initiative of the european parliament. trans-fatty acids are present in food of natural origin and their industrial production is exclusively linked to reducing food production costs. a balanced and natural diet of quality agricultural products is once again proving to be the right choice, while various forms of "artificial" and industrially produced food, often motivated solely by profit, are once again proving harmful to health.
written. ‒ this resolution only applies to industrially produced fatty acids, the consumption of which is associated with increased risks of cardiovascular disease, infertility, diabetes, obesity, some forms of cancer, etc. efsa, who and fda agree on the harmfulness of trans fatty acids to human health. the eu has so far not regulated the content of trans fatty acids in food products or required their labelling. however, in certain member states such as denmark, austria, latvia and hungary there is legislation limiting the proportion of trans-fatty acids in food products. the danish authorities have also provided evidence that the use of the new legislation is likely to lead to a reduction in the number of deaths from cardiovascular disease. it is necessary to introduce precisely such measures at union level. the introduction of mandatory labelling of trans-fatty acids on products is an insufficient mechanism compared to mandatory restrictions, as consumers are not aware of the negative impact of trans-fatty acids. s&d has warned of this problem before. parliament is now quite united in its message to the commission and i believe that the commission must as soon as possible set legal limits on the values of industrial trans-fatty acids, because only such a solution can save tens of thousands of lives a year.
written. ‒ trans-fatty acids are naturally found in food obtained from mammals, in some plants, and in human breast milk. however, most of the trans fatty acids consumed are industrially produced. there is evidence of health risks associated with the consumption of trans fatty acids and the cause of obesity in humans. i support the motion for a resolution on trans-fatty acids (2016/2637 ((rsp)) as informing about the harmful effects of industrial trans-fatty acids and limiting their use can prevent health risks for european citizens.
written. ‒ since we have been elected by our constituents to represent their interests at eu level, their well-being should be our primary objective in all respects, with particular attention to protecting their health. this resolution points to the harmfulness of trans-fatty acids used in food products in order to contribute to the desired coexistence of food products and ensure a long shelf life. high intakes of trans fatty acids are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, including coronary heart disease, which is responsible for around 14% of the overall mortality rate in the european union. it is clear from the above arguments that trans fatty acids are only a cheap ingredient in the production process and i believe that it is not enough to provide consumers with information on trans fatty acids and to promote healthier food choices, but we must also take concrete steps to protect our health. i therefore supported the call to the european commission to propose restrictions on the use of trans-fatty acids in food in order to protect public health.
mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues for this excellent report, especially my colleagues at the court of auditors. it is clear that our common objective is good management of public money and the role of the court of auditors in this is very important. we are concerned not only with the lawful and targeted use of funds, but also with the efficient and effective use of funds, and i am very pleased that vice-president georgijeva has emphasised the focus on results. that's what prompted me to call. you also highlighted the simplified method of cost accounting, and it is important to ask why member states do not use this method, although it is available. we're not going to change anything by changing the regulations unless we change the attitude of the auditor. the member states often say that it is the auditors who are still more input-oriented than output- and outcome-oriented, and it is the simplified cost method that insists on outcomes, so i also call on the court of auditors to increase education and knowledge sharing on this subject.
mr. president, i express concern about the humanitarian situation in iraq and support the activities being carried out to help save lives and provide assistance to all those in need, as well as to stop further displacement. sectarian violence threatens the survival of minorities, and before 2003, iraq was home to more than 1,400,000 christians. christians have become the target of extremist groups. churches were destroyed, christians were kidnapped and killed, and those who survived and stayed in mosul, ended up on the streets as homeless. on the orders of isis, a proclamation was issued in 2014 that all christians had to choose between paying taxes and converting to islam, leaving the city or dying. they were only allowed to bring clothes that they were wearing on their bodies. all the remaining 25,000 christians left the city, and for the first time in the history of mosul, there were no christians left. i believe that isis will be defeated, but we also need to defeat their ideology and enable an inclusive democratic society. perhaps establishing self-government could be the solution for the christians in nineveh.
mr. president, it is believed that there are still about 1.5 million civilians in mosul along with about 5,000 isil militants. in the last 10 days, more than 5,000 people have fled conflict-affected areas to a refugee camp across the border in syria. they came to camp al-hol, which is already overcrowded and in extremely poor conditions. current information is that 1,000 more refugees are waiting to cross the border, and it is becoming increasingly certain that the world will soon face one of the greatest humanitarian crises in recent times. i therefore strongly support this resolution and believe that efforts should be made to find a way to force all parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law, to provide protection for civilians and access to humanitarian and medical assistance, and to allow civilians to leave the areas affected by the violence in safety and dignity. urgent and uncompromising humanitarian support from the european union and the rest of the international community to the people of iraq is now imperative.
madam president, the citizens of the european union have recognised the value of volunteering almost 100 million volunteers. the benefits are visible in the economy. in some countries, volunteering contributes up to 5% of gdp. and the social impact of volunteering is outstanding, it is an important aspect of active citizenship and democracy because it fosters intergenerational solidarity, creates social capital and contributes to social inclusion. in times of rising xenophobia and populism, volunteers are the bearers of european values of solidarity and non-discrimination. although the economic crisis has not destroyed the spirit of volunteering in the union, bureaucratic obstacles, inadequately regulated status and lack of institutional support make it difficult to volunteer. in croatia, for example, civil society organizations are the movers and shakers of volunteerism. they also educate volunteers and volunteer organisers and organise activities. for every euro received from the state budget, another 4 taxable euros are withdrawn from the european funds, but their impact on the economy is not valorised and they are not a component of gdp. finally, after the 2011 'year of volunteering', we need new initiatives and institutional support to finally give volunteers the status of european volunteers.
madam president, it's enough to see today's paper. it's enough to look at the media today in europe, especially in italy, to have a clear understanding of what volunteering means. without these people who are willing to sacrifice themselves 24 hours a day, there would not be so much solidarity, so much friendship, not only in italy, but anywhere in europe, anywhere in the world. i want to highlight the many examples that we have. of course, maybe the fire department is the most famous example or the longest-running volunteer program, but the current migrant crisis shows how important volunteers are. one experience i have with a pulse association called "our dream, their smile" shows something that is important, and i want to emphasize that, mr. commissioner. ngos, volunteers, they go where the government can't go. that's the great added value that volunteers have in relation to the public sector.
madam president, promoting mobility must not be the main policy we use to address high youth unemployment, which in some countries like croatia has been at a critical level for a long time. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the union's external action on the union's external borders, in particular by examining the impact of the union's external action on the union's external borders. i'm glad this report recognizes that. some 20,000 young people have left the croatian region of slavonia alone in the last six months. if this trend continues, croatia will be an unsustainable country and a burden to other members in a decade, but unfortunately it is not the only one. i therefore believe that we must finally stop with the one-size-fits-all solutions at union level and tackle structural reforms in each country individually. the situation in each of them is specific. the problems are somewhat similar, not the same, and the one-size-fits-all solutions will not deliver the expected results, not yet.
madam president, i agree with the rapporteur that we must strengthen the role and position of small and medium-sized family farms within the framework of the common agricultural policy. small farms are the heart of the european countryside and the guardians of traditional production and the guarantee of the survival of life in rural areas. but i am not sure that this ambitious target can be achieved within the framework of the existing cap. unfortunately, the cap has been the most expensive, but also the most inefficient, european policy since its earliest days and it needs to be radically changed. and that's something that obviously no one's doing. direct payments to farmers per hectare have led to the rewarding of land size rather than productivity. the small ones are getting too little money, and the big ones are getting a little carried away, because the taxpayers' money is practically guaranteed to them. we really need to change that.
written. ‒ i support this 2014 discharge report to the european council and the council. the interpretation of parliament in article 319 tfeu clearly provides for a distinction in the roles between these two institutions. parliament has institutional power in the discharge agreement.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, part ii. - european council and council, as it refuses to give discharge to the secretary-general of the council. i believe that all the institutions of the union should operate in a transparent and accountable manner and that access to information and documents is key to building citizens' trust in the european institutions. in this context, i consider it inappropriate that the european council and the council do not submit their annual reports to parliament and that there is a real need to modernise the administration of the council itself. in addition, it is necessary for the council to develop detailed anti-corruption guidelines and therefore cooperation between the council and parliament is indispensable in the form of effective budgetary control.
written. ‒ the the report notes that the council, in the documents submitted in the discharge procedure, has clearly answered only three out of 27 questions concerning the financial year 2014. this is just one of a series of difficulties in the discharge procedures caused by the council's lack of cooperation. the commission's position of january 2014 stressed that all institutions must fully implement the recommendations made by parliament in the discharge procedure and that they must cooperate with each other in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the discharge procedure. the council's refusal to submit the requested documents to parliament also undermines the eu citizens' right to information and transparency, which is a matter of concern. such a situation leads to a serious breach of the obligations arising from the treaty and it is therefore necessary for the council to join the union transparency register in order to guarantee the accountability of the institution. the european council and the council's failure to cooperate with the discharge authority sends a negative message to the citizens of the union. i therefore supported this report refusing to give the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge decision for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, although in april the discharge decision was postponed due to insufficient cooperation from the council. i support the view expressed earlier by parliament that the council should show greater transparency and accountability to the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to it by participating fully and in good faith in the annual reporting on the expenditure of the eu budget, just as the other eu institutions do. the european council and the council had a general budget of eur 534 200 000 in 2014 with an implementation rate of 91,3%, which is sufficient to make their work transparent to the citizens whom the european parliament directly represents and whose interests it protects. i believe that only full transparency can have an impact on raising citizens' trust in the european union and its institutions, especially in the turbulent times we are living in today, exposed to various crises, both major and minor, which citizens who finance the work of these councils feel in their skin in every corner of the union.
written. ‒ by failing to cooperate with our institutions, we are sending a negative message to the citizens of the union. the council's refusal to provide the requested documents undermines the right of union citizens to information. the union institutions must be transparent and accountable to the citizens of the union with regard to the funds entrusted to them. i regret that the council has still not commented on the observations in parliament's discharge resolution of 28 april 2016 regarding the trend of increase in unspent appropriations and carry-overs of commitments in recent years. i call on the council to provide information on the process of modernising its administration, to adopt a code of conduct, to implement whistleblower rules, to develop a detailed anti-corruption guideline and to join the union transparency register in order to guarantee the transparency and accountability of the institution. the power of parliament to grant discharge is conferred on it by articles 316, 317 and 319 tfeu, for each heading of the budget individually, in order to preserve transparency and democratic accountability towards the taxpayers of the union. the expenditure of the council shall be monitored in the same way as that of the other institutions. i regret that the budgets of the european council and the council have not yet been separated. the relevant stakeholders must take the necessary steps to address this issue without further delay. the revision of the contracts and the financial regulation is necessary to clarify the objectives and procedures in granting discharge and to define the penalties for non-compliance with those rules.
written. ‒ i supported the report refusing to discharge the 2014 budget of the european union in the area of the european council and the council, as i believe that no part of the budget of the european union can be discharged until the court of auditors gives a positive report on the general budget in its entirety. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the budget for the european union for the financial year 2012 and the implementation of the budget for the european union for the financial year 2013. i support the call for the council to provide information on the process of modernising the administration and in particular on the expected impact of modernisation on the council's budget. if, with the opinion of the court of auditors, not all the conditions mentioned are met, i consider that, due to the lack of transparency, the european parliament should not discharge the general budget of the european council and the council for 2014.
written. ‒ i support this 2014 dissolution report for the eniac joint undertaking. joint undertakings bring together industries and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technologies and demonstration activities and accelerate the market uptake of particular technologies. the domains include air traffic control, carbon energy, nanotechnology, computer technology, cleaner aviation technology and nuclear fusion. i support the jus in its many areas of work which are useful for eu citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014, as no major irregularities were found and its financial operations proved to be consistent and sound. also, the transactions conducted have been shown to be legal and regular, and therefore i support this report.
written. ‒ this report concludes that the financial statements of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 are presented in a reliable and transparent manner in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules and accounting rules. the closure of the books of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 is hereby approved. that's why i endorsed this report.
the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research programme' for the development of key knowledge in nanoelectronics in different fields of application. the founding members of the eniac joint undertaking are the european union, represented by the commission, belgium, germany, estonia, ireland, greece, spain, france, italy, the netherlands, poland, portugal, sweden and the united kingdom, and the association for european nanoelectronics activities (aeneas). the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for a period of 10 years shall be eur 450 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, stated that the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking correctly present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2014. although the vote on the resolution was postponed due to the lack of assurance on the proper implementation of the projects in the member states, since the postponement, the eniac joint undertaking has presented all the requested information confirming the statement that the implementation of the national procedures provides reasonable assurance on the legality and regularity of the transactions. i therefore support the approval of the implementing decision on the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ joint undertakings link industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships with the aim of supporting research, producing new technologies and accelerating their introduction to the market. it covers a wide range of sectors from air traffic control to computer technology to nuclear fusion, the development of which contributes to the well-being of eu citizens. the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research programme to develop key competences in nanoelectronics in various fields of application and was granted financial independence in july 2010. einac and artemis were later merged to create a joint technology initiative for electronic components and systems for european leadership. the financial statements of ecsel for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 shall, in all material respects, faithfully present its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and the results of operations and cash flows for the period ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of the financial and accounting rules. i welcome the assurance of the joint undertaking that national procedures provide reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the related transactions. in this day and age, no economy can succeed in the global marketplace without mastering these technologies that have unparalleled strategic impact. in europe, we need to build a dynamic ecosystem for the development of new technologies.
written. ‒ i voted against the discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. eniac was established on 20 december 2007 to establish and implement a research programme to develop key competences in nanoelectronics in various application areas in order to increase competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the development of new markets and societal applications. as for the other joint undertakings, i am of the opinion that eniac cannot be discharged until the court of auditors has delivered a positive and transparent report on the overall budget for 2014.
written. ‒ i support this 2014 dissolution report for the artemis joint undertaking. joint undertakings bring together industries and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technologies and demonstration activities and accelerate the market uptake of particular technologies. the domains include air traffic control, carbon energy, nanotechnology, computer technology, cleaner aviation technology and nuclear fusion. i support the jus in its many areas of work which are useful for eu citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014, as its financial position and cash flows are faithfully presented. although certain internal control standards on information and financial reporting were not fully respected, no irregularities were identified that would have prevented the granting of a discharge.
the european parliament gives a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget and the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the draft resolution of the european parliament notes that the financial statements of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 faithfully reflect its financial position. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
the artemis joint undertaking shall be financed by a union contribution and a member state contribution in a ratio of 1 to 1,8. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. however, i am concerned to note that, according to the court's report, budgetary constraints in the member states have made it difficult to reserve the remaining part of the budget, which represents 52% of the total budget, and i believe that this practice must change. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. although the discharge vote was postponed because the court of auditors did not assess the quality of the audit reports received from the national authorities related to the financing of the costs of the completed projects, since the postponement until now, the artemis joint undertaking has presented all the requested information confirming the statement that the implementation of the national procedures provides reasonable assurance of the legality and regularity of the transactions. i therefore support the approval of the implementing decision on the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in order to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and socially relevant applications. artemis and eniac are merged to create a joint technology initiative for electronic components and systems for european leadership. the ecsel joint technology initiative was established and started operations in june 2014 for a period of 10 years. the financial statements of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 shall, in all material respects, faithfully present the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 26 june 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the period ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of the financial and accounting rules. it should be noted that the artemis joint undertaking has not taken measures concerning certain internal control standards related to information and financial reporting. the reason is a merger that was in the works. however, in the meantime, the ecsel joint technology initiative has made significant progress in implementing the internal control standard and establishing an internal audit department. ecsel will strengthen the competitiveness of our electronics industries and all industries that rely on electronics.
written. ‒ i am of the opinion that the artemis joint undertaking should not be discharged for 2014 because the court of auditors did not discharge the budgets of the european union as a whole for that year. the artemis joint undertaking aims to define and implement a 'research programme' to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in different application areas in order to increase european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications. the commission also found that the company had not provided any evidence that the commission had found that the company had not been able to meet the requirements of the commission's guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. as it is apparent that the company has not taken measures relating to certain internal control standards related to information and financial reporting, i voted against the discharge for artemis for 2014.
written. ‒ i support this 2014 dissolution report for the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. joint undertakings bring together industries and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technologies and demonstration activities and accelerate the market uptake of particular technologies. the domains include air traffic control, carbon energy, nanotechnology, computer technology, cleaner aviation technology and nuclear fusion. i support jus in its many areas of work that are useful for eu citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, as the discharge and the approval of the accounts allow the european joint undertaking to continue its work without any disruption. it was established that the annual accounts presented a realistic and consistent picture of the financial situation of the company and that the iter project was moving in the right direction.
written. ‒ the european parliament gives discharge to the executive director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the budget and the closure of the accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. as the director-general of the iter organisation has presented an action plan to the iter council with concrete measures to address the main constraints affecting the development of the project, i have supported this report.
written. ‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is an international undertaking involving, in addition to the eu member states, major economic powers such as the usa, india, japan, russia and china. the eu has committed eur 6,6 billion in 2008 as the european contribution to iter. the court of auditors' findings show that this amount is twice as high as the initial budgetary expenditure and does not include the amount of eur 663 000 000 proposed by the commission to cover any unforeseen expenditure. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget and shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the iter project to include the upgrading of the integrated schedule. the iter council review group stated that the schedule is demanding but feasible. a sharp focus on the core elements will effectively reduce project risks. evidence of improved decision-making, better understanding of risks and compliance with commitments should provide a renewed basis of trust. i therefore support the approval of the implementation decision for the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
written. ‒ due to the challenges currently facing the iter project, the new director general of the iter organisation presented an action plan to the iter council with concrete measures to address the main constraints currently affecting the development of the project. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests. the first plasma is planned for december 2025 and the successful completion of all key project stages to date by or before that date is a positive indicator of the joint capacity of the iter organisation and the domestic agencies to continue to adhere to the schedule. i am confident that the iter project will continue to develop at its current positive pace. i welcome the iter council's view that focusing on the core elements over the first plasma should effectively reduce the risk of the iter project. i must stress the importance of this project for the future of europe and the world, and the need to maintain a high level of global cooperation on this issue. i am proud of the eu's important role within the project, our leadership on the way to the energy future.
the european union has created a european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, with the tasks of ensuring the european community's contribution to the international fusion energy organisation (iter) for atomic energy, ensuring the contribution of euratom to the widespread access activities with japan for the accelerated realisation of fusion energy, and preparing and coordinating the programme of activities for the preparation of the construction of experimental fusion reactors and associated facilities. in view of the importance of this joint undertaking in terms of its responsibility for public research activities in the european and international interest, i consider that it should not be discharged until the 2014 budget is discharged in full in order to achieve budgetary transparency.
written. ‒ i support this statement on the situation in northern iraq/mosul. i fully support the iraqi government and the actions of the international coalition forces in iraq aimed at liberating mosul. what we must all insist on together in the course of this operation is the respect of international humanitarian law.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in northern iraq/mosul, given the need to support the efforts of the coalition forces fighting to liberate mosul, iraq's second largest garrison from isis, as well as efforts to avoid civilian casualties. mosul is an important milestone in the liberation of iraq and the reintegration of the country. the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the associated countries of the former soviet union, the associated countries cyprus, malta and turkey, and the efta countries, the associated countries cyprus, malta and turkey, and the efta countries, the efta countries and the efta countries, members of the european economic area, and efta countries, members of the european economic area, and associated countries, members of the european economic area and non-member countries, as well as to the implementation of the european investment bank's (eib) macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the efta countries, members of the european investment bank and the efta states, and the efta states, members of the european investment bank, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on european union, in accordance with the provisions of the association agreement between the european economic area and the european community and the european atomic energy community ('the 'eib'). of course, before that, the only condition is the liberation of the country. the eu should play an important active role in the process of restoring peace and the future independence and integrity of the country, which has a major impact on the stability of the middle east. the eu should play an active role in the necessary humanitarian efforts, which, according to the un, are facing a lack of the necessary resources.
written. ‒ the iraqi army, with the support of the global coalition to fight isis/da'esh and its affiliates, has launched an operation to liberate mosul and its surroundings. the wider region is home to christian and other peoples who have lived for centuries in a spirit of general pluralism, stability and communal cooperation. isis/daesh in mosul has imposed a draconian regime. they are increasingly committing war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. today, the number of christians in iraq has plummeted from over 1.5 million in 2003 to 200,000, with many living in poverty and insecurity. the eu and its member states must work to build prospects for all those who have been forced to leave their homeland and whose lives are at risk. it is essential to provide protection and assistance to all those targeted by isis and other terrorist organisations in the middle east. that is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ building a stable and secure environment is not only necessary in the city of mosul, but in the wider area around this great city. the protection of civilians must be a priority, not just for the forces fighting to liberate the city, but for all other actors involved in the operation non-combatantly. it is necessary to ensure that a campaign of revenge is not launched against those who remained in the city even during the terrorist occupation and control of the city. the european union must insist on the consistent implementation of international humanitarian law and ensure that there is full protection for all religious and ethnic minorities in mosul in order to avoid the potential persecution that has already been inflicted on christians in the area. the establishment of safe zones and evacuation corridors for the civilian population is essential, as is the timely information of the citizens of mosul on the planned activities. after the operation, the iraqi government, the eu and coalition forces must work to restore normalcy, stabilise and organise the city and reduce radicalisation. i'm saying that it's imperative that christians be allowed to govern themselves in nineveh and that the eu urgently needs to cut off all trade with those who are funding isis.
written. ‒ the iraqi army, with the support of the global anti-da'esh coalition and local forces, has launched an operation to liberate mosul, an important step towards the final defeat of da'esh. i fully support the actions of iraq as necessary to preserve its independence and territorial integrity. i call on all parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law during and after the fighting and to keep humanitarian corridors open for the delivery of aid and for civilians fleeing the violence. i stress the need to take all precautions to avoid civilian casualties during the bombing, as well as the destruction of civilian infrastructure. i call on the eu and its member states to help the iraqi and kurdish authorities to restore security and rebuild liberated territories. we want safe homes to which the people of iraq can return and begin to build a new future. it is necessary to ensure basic services and security for the population and to define a long-term strategy to deal with the causes of the breakdown of social cohesion and the emergence of radical currents. the eu must support the stabilisation, resilience and development of iraq. it is important to enable political participation of minorities in and around mosul. peaceful coexistence and respect for minority rights, overcoming hatred and division are the only right path for the country. i stress that the fight against da'esh, al-nusra front and other terrorist organizations on the security council list remains a priority in iraq and syria. the region needs peace as soon as possible.
written. ‒ mosul is iraq's second largest city, occupied by isil in 2014, since then considered the last major stronghold of the militants. a major offensive operation (the "battle for mosul") is underway to liberate the city and surrounding territory by joint forces of the government of iraq and allies, and limited us infantry with air support. it is believed that there are still about 1.5 million civilians in mosul along with about 5,000 isil militants. in the last 10 days, over 5,000 people have fled the conflict to a refugee camp across the border in syria. they arrived at the already crowded and extremely poor conditions of the al-hol refugee camp. current information is that 1,000 more refugees are waiting to cross the border, and it is becoming increasingly certain that the world will soon face one of the greatest humanitarian crises in recent times. i therefore strongly support this resolution of the european parliament which calls on all parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law, to provide protection for civilians and access to humanitarian and medical assistance, and to allow civilians to leave the areas affected by the violence in safety and dignity. the urgent and uncompromising humanitarian support of the european union and the rest of the international community to the people of iraq is now imperative.
written. ‒ we discussed a resolution on the state of journalism which is extremely worrying and is the most striking indicator of what is happening in turkey. but it must not be forgotten that a huge number of teachers, deans of universities, ended up in prison. so it's going to all segments of society, from informing the public to influencing young people. the visa regime is currently the only tool in europe's hands.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the situation of journalists in turkey, given that there are numerous cases of abuse of the repressive authorities against media freedom. unfortunately, turkey has faced a recent attempt at an undemocratic coup d'état, and then turkey is facing terrorism that threatens not only its security but also its economy. the eu, as a partner, should help turkey to address these issues, but these issues should not be used as an excuse and instrument to close down opposition media or detain disgraced journalists unless there are indications of criminal activity. everyone should be guaranteed a fair trial and a free defense. it is necessary that the competent eu institutions monitor the situation and report to the european parliament.
the european parliament strongly condemns the attempted coup d'état in turkey on 15 july 2016 and expresses its support for the legitimate institutions. the resolution calls on the turkish authorities to release journalists detained without credible evidence of their criminal activities and expresses concern about the closure of more than 150 media outlets. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement. the commission should also be able to provide information on the activities of the turkish authorities in the field of the fight against terrorism. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution.
written. ‒ turkey has expressed its desire to join the european union. accession and the negotiations that follow this process aim to ensure a high level of respect for and implementation of the democratic standards adopted in the european union. this also applies to freedom of the press and responsible media reporting. i condemn the turkish authorities' treatment of foreign and domestic journalists and support this call for a resolution to secure the release of innocent journalists as soon as possible. freedom of responsibly expressed and conveyed public speech must be respected as the highest democratic standard and the foundation of democratic pluralism. the violence and torture inflicted on the family members of detained turkish journalists is unacceptable and should be met with sanctions against those responsible. it is contrary to the legal order and legal practice to deprive a person of liberty without having been subject to substantiated charges and without having been given the opportunity to respond to and defend against such charges. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and its implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp) and the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp) in the context of the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp). the closure of news houses also represents an unacceptable precedent and an example of censorship and violation of the right to freedom of the media, information and work.
written. ‒ during the first two and a half months of the state of emergency, the authorities closed down around 150 media outlets, leaving more than 2,300 journalists without jobs. furthermore, the police arrested at least 99 journalists and writers, most of whom have not been charged to date. the detained journalists have been denied their legal rights, while several journalists have reportedly been abused in prison. journalists are also targeted for administrative sanctions, which include the confiscation of passports. even family members of journalists, even if not themselves under investigation, are subject to threats and administrative sanctions. foreign journalists, on the other hand, have been deported from turkey. we therefore join the calls on the turkish authorities to immediately release all imprisoned journalists in the absence of credible evidence of criminal activity, to lift the administrative sanctions imposed on journalists and to refrain from threatening the family members of suspected journalists. we also call on the turkish authorities to prevent violence against suspects and to investigate allegations of torture of detained journalists. we also ask that the closed media be allowed to continue to operate and to be independent in their work.
written. ‒ the situation in turkey after the attempted overthrow of erdogan in june this year is chaotic, both politically and in the civil aspect. erdogan has been accused of an authoritarian style of government, steeped in violations and undermining of fundamental human rights and freedoms. the commission and parliament have already expressed concerns in their resolutions about the violation of media freedoms, but according to information coming from turkey, the situation has worsened dramatically after the failed coup attempt against erdogan - hundreds of media outlets have been shut down, while dozens of journalists have been arrested. i believe that turkey should therefore be urgently called upon to respect human rights, including the right to freedom of expression, which is at the very heart of democratic values - the same values that turkey committed to respect when applying for membership of the european union.
written. ‒ i support this report on nuclear safety and non-proliferation. when international peace, security and stability are seriously threatened by events, including the deterioration of relations between nuclear-armed states, it is important to emphasise what we should strive for most: peace, security and stability.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation, because nuclear disarmament should be the overriding objective of global arms control policies, and the ultimate long-term goal of the npt is a world without nuclear weapons. given that the security situation around the european union, in particular in its neighbourhood, has significantly deteriorated in recent years and has become more volatile, dangerous and unpredictable, this has forced member states to face a wide range of traditional and non-traditional threats from state and non-state actors. this joint proposal supports the objectives of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, as they underpin global efforts to prevent proliferation, promote the safe use of nuclear energy for civilian purposes and achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons.
written. ‒ this resolution warns of a worrying situation around the world where large nuclear arsenals still exist and the risk of increasing international instability and tensions. the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt) is a key international treaty that seeks to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons technology, promote cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, and advocate global nuclear disarmament, and has been signed by 191 states. the objectives of this treaty underpin global efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to promote the safe use of nuclear energy for civilian purposes and to achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. as global cooperation is a key factor in preventing nuclear terrorism, i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of a resolution which will clearly and unequivocally express the position and opinion of the european union against the use of nuclear weapons to intimidate or deter an enemy, or in open conflict. we live in a world where the effects of radiation pollution are impossible to contain within a narrow range of potential conflict. it is therefore necessary to send a clear signal to all nuclear powers in the world that the use of nuclear weapons is not an option supported by the european union. there must be a responsibility to the international community. the european union must do everything in its power and use all means at its disposal to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, the dissemination of knowledge about the process of creating a nuclear arsenal or the parts needed to create it. work should also be done to curb nuclear testing in order to protect human health and the environment. the european union must promote dialogue, cooperation and agreements between nuclear-armed states, and there are open issues between them. the fight against illicit possession and effective control of nuclear weapons is one of the key preconditions for the security and stability of any state.
written. ‒ i am concerned about the undermining of regional and international security and the reinforcement of the role of nuclear weapons in these processes. international peace and stability are threatened by the deteriorating relationship between the nuclear powers. the illegal development and proliferation of nuclear weapons is a major concern of the world community. our priority must be to stop the acquisition of nuclear capabilities by terrorist actors and additional, potentially unstable, countries. i therefore support the conclusions of this year's washington summit and welcome the commitment to stop the illicit trade and use of nuclear material and to the full control and physical protection of nuclear material. while the 2003 security strategy listed nuclear proliferation as one of the fundamental threats, the current global strategy does not address wmd, non-proliferation and arms control. i call on eu member states to support and act constructively in the next un conference in 2017 with a view to the adoption of a binding instrument to prohibit nuclear weapons. i call on all nuclear-armed nations to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear detonation and to reduce the role of these weapons in their military doctrines. i also support the strengthening of the mandate of the international atomic energy agency and the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east, which is one of the key preconditions for building lasting peace in the region.
written. ‒ large nuclear arsenals and the potential for further proliferation remain around the world, increasing international instability and tension. that is why i believe that global cooperation and the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt), an international treaty that seeks to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons technology, are key factors in the fight against nuclear proliferation. in view of the danger posed by terrorist attacks, it is clear that continued cooperation and further improvement of nuclear security are essential, as only in this way can the risk of nuclear weapons or nuclear weapon-related material falling into the hands of terrorist groups be minimised. as this resolution recognizes the need to step up efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, i voted in favour.
written. ‒ i support this report on european voluntary service. volunteering deserves to be a hot topic in political discussions. i therefore welcome the initiative to take the lead from the european parliament on this important issue for all europeans.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on european voluntary service and the promotion of volunteering in europe, because i believe that volunteering is one of the most visible expressions of solidarity that promotes and facilitates social inclusion, builds social capital and transforms society. the added value of volunteering should be constantly highlighted, as it contributes to the development of a vibrant civil society that can offer creative and innovative solutions to common challenges, is a key instrument for social inclusion and cohesion as well as for training, education and intercultural dialogue, while making an important contribution to the dissemination of european values.
written. ‒ volunteering is one of the most visible forms of solidarity that promotes and facilitates social inclusion, builds social capital and contributes to the development of a thriving civil society. volunteering as such contributes to the acquisition of skills and competences and should be recognised as an informal and non-formal education. in europe, almost 100 million citizens of all ages volunteer and contribute 5% of european gdp. the resolution stresses the importance of providing a european framework for volunteering as a legal framework that will establish the status of volunteering with rights and responsibilities and facilitate mobility and recognition of skills. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ volunteering is an expression of solidarity that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and personal development and is key to achieving social inclusion, as well as to training, education and intercultural dialogue. it also contributes to the development of a thriving civil society that can offer creative and innovative solutions to common challenges and economic growth, thus building social capital and transforming society. as such, it should be supported at local, national and, of course, european level. as volunteering currently accounts for around 5% of european gdp, it is clear that it is important not to neglect it in economic terms. but such support must not be limited to words. i therefore support this motion for a resolution because i believe that concrete steps are needed to support and promote volunteering. it helps to acquire skills and abilities and should be recognised as non-formal education should be encouraged in education systems. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's voluntary service programmes, in particular on the implementation of the european voluntary service. we should not limit the scope of volunteering to young people, but encourage active ageing. of course, none of this is possible if the system of access to volunteering is complicated. therefore, it is necessary to ensure quick and easy access to volunteering by simplifying the application system.
written. ‒ volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to strengthening active citizenship and is a key instrument for social inclusion as well as for training and education. volunteering also contributes to intercultural dialogue and the dissemination of european values. the s&d resolution stresses the importance of providing a legal framework that will establish a volunteering status with rights and responsibilities for volunteers and facilitate mobility and recognition. in this regard, it calls on the member states to implement concrete validation processes within the framework of the 2012 council recommendation. it is important to take greater account of knowledge acquired through non-formal education, including volunteering, as volunteering provides people with skills that facilitate their access to the labour market. i support the commission's idea to launch a new volunteering initiative european solidarity corps and stress that the commission should involve volunteer organisations in the implementation of this initiative. the european voluntary service should be based on quality volunteering offers and respect the volunteering charter. the resolution stresses the importance of promoting european voluntary service among young people and i believe that european voluntary service should be based on a structure that allows quick and easy access to the youth programme.
‒ the european voluntary service was created to help young people aged 17-30 who travel abroad to participate in volunteering projects lasting between 2 weeks and 12 months. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. i supported this proposal because i believe it is extremely important to connect young people on a voluntary basis, because the end result is a great potential to achieve extremely positive goals such as social inclusion, solidarity, intercultural dialogue and, in my opinion, most importantly, the building of multiple skills and competences from which young people will benefit in the future. i am delighted to see that between 2014 and 2020, an estimated 100 000 young people will participate in this commendable initiative.
written. ‒ i support this report on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015, which focuses on the evaluation of the strategy, but also on the recommendations for the third and final three-year cycle of the european union youth strategy (2016-2018). the report provides an overview of the challenges facing young europeans today, such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the report also identifies target groups that are more likely to be unemployed and marginalised: young people with low qualifications, those at social risk and those of lower socioeconomic status, such as ethnic minorities, refugees, migrants and asylum seekers. the construction of an eu youth strategy involves all stakeholders, in particular youth organisations, the identification of voluntary activities and, ultimately, the promotion and investment in mobility programmes, in particular erasmus+.
written. ‒ i voted for the evaluation report on the eu youth strategy 2013 2015 because i believe that young people have a huge potential for the future of european societies. the union should support the development of a european youth policy, including the development of a european youth policy, and the development of a european youth policy. this eu report recommends that local, regional and national authorities and eu bodies ensure quality communication, implementation and coordination of the various eu-level programmes covering youth policies. youth policy should, in addition to the open method of coordination, call for closer cooperation and exchange of best practices on youth issues at local, regional and national as well as eu level. the inclusion of young people with disabilities in the labour market is also necessary to enable them to lead independent lives and to be fully integrated into society in which they can actively participate and make a real contribution.
written. ‒ recently, youth unemployment has decreased, but its figures remain a cause for concern. in the period 2013-2015, member states continued measures to improve youth employment, labour market integration, social inclusion and active civic participation. while progress has been made, further solutions to reduce youth unemployment and more systematic cooperation in a number of policy areas at eu and member state level are needed. the renewed framework for european cooperation in the field of the eu youth strategy for 2010-2018 has 2 general priorities: facilitating the transition from school to work and supporting active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity. the report stresses the need to strengthen the integration of youth policy, cross-sectoral cooperation and social measures in the eu. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the new rules on the implementation of the union's financial instruments, in particular on the financial instruments of the union, the european regional development fund and the european social fund. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ young people are the wealth of every society, and especially our european one, which in recent years and decades has been facing increasing demographic problems. despite the shared view of the importance of our young people, they have faced numerous difficulties for many years in many parts of europe, the most obvious of which is in finding employment. there is a noticeable gap between young people from different parts of europe, but also between groups of young people from the same area. all of them are now facing the risk of social inaction, isolation and eventual radicalisation, aided by the economic crisis and unstable political developments. to help them meet these challenges, we must agree not only on their importance, but also on what we are willing to do for their well-being. as youth policy is a competence of the member states, the european union has a major responsibility for advising and supporting and ultimately coordinating these policies. the key objectives of the youth strategy are to facilitate the transition from education to the labour market and to encourage active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity among young people. while i am not happy with the situation in which a large number of young people across europe find themselves today, i will support this resolution as i believe that the strategy has nevertheless contributed to improving the situation of young people in the union.
written. ‒ this report should be a review of the results achieved by the eu youth strategy 2013-2015, but unfortunately, the report focused primarily on information on investments made and actions taken. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of young people in the union, which calls for the adoption of a new law on the protection of young people and the promotion of youth in the union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's youth policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's youth policy. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i support this report on the cap which stresses the need to make the best use of the cap to counter the declining trend in agricultural and non-agricultural employment over many decades in rural areas. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation, in particular the rules on the application of the provisions of this regulation, the rules on the application of the provisions of this regulation and the rules on the application of the provisions of this regulation.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on how the cap can boost job creation in rural areas, as these are the areas facing a number of challenges such as low incomes, negative population growth, a lack of jobs and high unemployment, weak development of the tertiary sector, a lack of capacity for processing food products, low skill levels and limited amounts of capital. agriculture and the agri-food industry account for 6% of the european union's gdp and 46 million jobs, so it is our task to preserve agricultural production in order to maintain the dynamism of rural areas and the number of jobs. employment is one of the eu's main priorities, especially in the context of the eagf, and in this context the legitimacy and effectiveness of the common agricultural policy (cap) should be strengthened in order to make it one of the main drivers of european action to safeguard and create jobs in rural areas and to promote competitiveness.
written. ‒ agriculture still covers a large part of the european territory. the commission has also proposed that the maximum amount of aid granted to the beneficiary should be limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the operation of the scheme. the report points out that direct payments under the cap should be granted exclusively to persons whose main activity is agriculture. the cap should not only concern farmers but also other end-users of agricultural products and goods. the commission notes that the agreement between the parties to the agreement is not a legally binding agreement, but rather a legally binding agreement between the parties to the agreement. european farmers are now operating in an increasingly globalised market and are therefore more exposed to price volatility than other sectors. trade agreements currently under negotiation, such as ttip, ceta between the eu and canada and the eu-mercosur free trade agreement, pose a threat to job creation and the creation of conditions to support agricultural livelihoods, which the eu has no intention of doing. the creation of jobs in rural areas must be part of a sustainable policy geared to specific areas. they shall take account of the preservation and development of agricultural activities and activities indirectly linked to the agriculture and forestry sector, as well as rural activities which are the basis of social relations and solidarity. that's why i didn't support this report.
written. ‒ the cap can and must stimulate job creation in rural areas. however, the cap cannot replace the social policy promoted by this report. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and the environment in the union. i believe that the cap should be developed in the direction of empowering primary producers, establishing fair relations between the actors in the food supply chain and other measures aiming at production based on both traditional experiences and new technologies that must become available to family farms. newly established economies can become job creators. furthermore, trade agreements should be seen as an opportunity to further strengthen european agriculture, but at the same time domestic, european policies should be adapted to the specific needs of member states to compete in the global market, such as providing the right to an independent and unconditional decision to ban the planting and use of gmos on their territory. as this report is vague in that segment, but also in some other components, i was reluctant to adopt it.
written. ‒ i agree that the cap after 2020 should attach great importance to instruments for modernisation and investments that guarantee the competitiveness of economic sectors located in rural areas. i believe that the development of a competitive and sustainable agricultural model based on family, diversified and multifunctional farming has no alternative. i also support the call to member states to develop tools to better monitor and regulate land. the report also emphasises that direct payments under the cap should only be granted to persons whose main field of activity is agriculture, which i fully agree with. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cap and its implementation in the member states, in particular by ensuring that the cap is implemented in a fair and equitable manner. that's why i voted yes.
mr. president, i want to be absolutely clear right from the start. after analyzing many arguments for and against, i will advocate for the abolition of the so-called summer time. the reasons for the recent introduction of daylight saving time are no longer the arguments they once were. a hundred years ago, when wartime time was first introduced, the main argument was to save the key energy source, coal. of course, the way of life was completely different from today. today, fortunately, we have more and more renewable energy sources, and of course our daily lives have completely changed. they may mention our heating and cooling habits or, even more drastically, our transportation habits. so it's clear that energy conservation is no longer a strong enough argument to change the clocks throughout the year. i think we need to start today with the indisputable fact, the proven harmful effects of the human biorhythm on changing weather. this is especially evident in the elderly. it has also been shown to affect animal welfare. in addition, changing the timing often creates additional communication chaos. human life, along with animal welfare, should be put before economic interests. if we never had knowledge of daylight saving time and its consequences, we now undoubtedly do. that should be the main argument in this debate and the main argument for abolishing time change. an online survey of 1,500 respondents conducted by our colleague, mr. škrlec, shows that as many as 85% of citizens in croatia are against changing the time. they claim there's virtually no energy savings. so i call on the commission and on you, commissioner, to simply take account of this virtually unanimous thinking in this parliament and to amend the directives and to stop double counting the time.
mr president, the euro is first and foremost a political project that has made millions of people unhappy and has badly tarnished the union's reputation in the eyes of its citizens. but social discontent is easily brushed aside for clear political ends. monetary union can hardly function without fiscal union. she's next in line and then we'll have a european federation. that's the plan. it is no wonder, then, that the euro enjoys such support among europe's elites, and that this report welcomes the european central bank's pledge to do whatever is necessary to defend the euro. i cannot commend that promise. the euro binds too many different economies that at the end of each business cycle, when a recession hits, they will find themselves in the same problems as at the end of the last decade. the southern countries are being hooked by the euro, while the northern countries are finally being bailed out of the mud by their taxpayers' money, both of them driven into it by the unrealistic ambitions of the european political class. it's time to call the shots.
mr. chairman, the rapporteur has made a precise diagnosis that can be applied to other areas, not just retail financial services. it is essential to exploit the full potential of the information technologies available, but we must be aware that they alone can only remove administrative barriers. other barriers, such as those of a legal and tax nature, can only be reduced by strong political will, which is all too often lacking. while there are many regulations in this area, from the payment services directive to the anti-money laundering directive, the road to a truly single market will not be quick or easy. the rapporteur recognises that it is crucial to raise the level of consumer confidence and satisfaction. they still face relatively high fees in cross-border cash flows that do not correspond to the real costs of the service providers and this is an injustice that we need to correct.
madam president, this report contributes to the search for more effective responses from the european union in the field of defence. our world is becoming more unstable, uncertain and unpredictable. we must respond to the growing challenges that threaten not only our integrity but our values. to achieve this, the member states must work more closely together. security and defence must not remain the weakest link in european integration. we should listen to the citizens. two-thirds of them want more cooperation. failure to provide citizens with security will lead to further alienation from the european project and a shift towards national security solutions. the european defence union is not a parallel structure to nato. it will be developed in full coordination with nato as our primary partner and pillar of european defence. the report emphasizes that. i urge you to support it because the european parliament must be involved in a process that has been lagging behind in other institutions. the report would send a strong message on a subject that has become a political issue of the first order and the criterion by which citizens judge the credibility of the european project.
madam president, europe is having a hard time responding to the security challenges posed by these turbulent times in which we live. the fact is that most member states spend too little on defence and that the days when europe was safe without too much military spending are long gone. but going back to solutions more than 60 years old will not bring us security. what was called the european defence community in the 1950s is now called the european defence union. it didn't come alive then, and it won't come alive now. and he doesn't need to live. the foundation of the defence of europe and of our civilization in general is nato. we need to do more with him, too. the us presidential elections have made it clear that there will be a redefinition of relations within nato and europe must show its readiness to engage with america and other key partners and its determination to lead in the defence of western civilization and its values.
madam president, the croatian part of the adriatic is made up of some 700 islands and 500 islets and reefs. fifty or so croatian islands are inhabited. i myself live on the island of korcula, the second most populated island off the croatian coast, and i can attest that poor transport links to the mainland are one of the main reasons for the island's economic and demographic decline. i therefore particularly support the rapporteur in highlighting the importance of ferry and other shipping lines for islands and their inhabitants. i agree with him that the connection of islands to areas of economic and industrial growth is crucial for territorial, social and economic cohesion. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not adversely affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i welcome the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. it provides an important input to the second high-level meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc). the development effectiveness agenda and gpedc marked a shift from aid to development effectiveness, moving the focus from official development assistance flows to broader development partnerships and actors. five years after the forum held in busan, korea, it is a good moment to assess the implementation of commitments taken and to discuss how effective development cooperation can best contribute to implementing the 2030 agenda on sustainable development and the addis ababa action plan on financing for development. the eu should continue to lead and move these agendas forward. the new european consensus for development, which will guide the eu and member states’ development policy in the years ahead will help develop effectiveness at its heart. we need to consider not just what we do, but how we do it. important steps have been taken to advance a more strategic and coordinated eu approach, for example by advancing a joint programming of eu and member states development assistance; maximising our collective impact and minimising overlaps; increasing transparency of aid and mutual accountability; measuring results on the basis of our new results framework; promoting ownership of the development priorities by partner countries, and addressing conflict and fragility. nevertheless, in order to implement the 2030 agenda successfully, more needs to be done at both eu and global level. the commission believes that the global partnership should strengthen the political momentum behind effective development cooperation and support implementation of these principles and commitments at country level. it should promote multi-stakeholder platforms at country level and the use of available data to enhance dialogue. if strategically developed and used, the global partnership can indeed provide added value to other international fora in the implementation, thus contributing to the follow-up process of the 2030 agenda. the report rightly recognises that the specific value added of the global partnership is in its inclusive and multi-stakeholder character, and stresses the need for all actors to be involved in moving the effectiveness agenda forward. in order to become a true partnership of all relevant actors, the involvement of parliaments, civil society organisations, local authorities and private sector is essential. averting situations of fragility also entails closer cooperation, notably with humanitarian actors, to build the resilience of vulnerable populations. the private sector and providers of south-south cooperation can make a huge contribution to achieving the sustainable development goals. we need to improve our ways of working in partnership, such as through the recently proposed external investment plan and dialogues with southern providers. we also need to see action and commitments from these actors. we would like the outcome document of the nairobi high-level meeting to include their ideas on how they will implement the principles in practice. the global partnership brings a special perspective by focusing on relations between development actors, but also through monitoring the progress of the implementation of principles and commitments. the recently published 2016 progress report entitled ‘making development cooperation more effective’ is a valuable source of evidence-based information to stimulate policy dialogue at country, regional and international level. to conclude, i would like to stress the commission’s commitment to development policy principles – results, transparency, country ownership and inclusive partnerships. we call on all development partners to ensure that the nairobi high level meeting further enhances the contribution of the global partnership to the 2030 agenda. the commission is committed to keeping the european parliament and its relevant committees informed on the advancement of global partnership.
madam president, at the end of october in orašje, bosnia and herzegovina, 10 members of the croatian council of defense, the military formation that first stood up to defend bosnia and herzegovina against serb aggression, were arrested. among those arrested are retired officers of the armed forces of the republic of croatia, a nato member state. all these people have been living in bosnia and herzegovina since the end of the war and are available to the judicial authorities. interestingly, all these years they haven't been prosecuted for war crimes. even more interesting, whenever the issue of internal restructuring of bosnia and herzegovina, the dayton revision and the equality of croats is raised, political persecution of croatian defenders is initiated, either by order of sarajevo or banja luka. if brussels really sees the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina, i think it is finally time to send a clear message to sarajevo that the judiciary must not be used for political purposes and that further harassment of citizens of the republic of croatia, a member of the european union, will not be tolerated.
mr president, the coordination of fiscal policies and joint action in the framework of the european semester have proved to be more than necessary for the long-term and sustainable development of the european union. it is important to continue with smart fiscal consolidation, stimulating investment, implementing structural reforms and building the single market. there is still plenty of room for investment and growth, and a lot of work ahead of us all, from building the digital single market, the energy union to an incentive ecosystem for innovation and start-ups. we want a europe that inspires, that is a model and a global leader, that grows by much more than 1 to 2% a year. it takes more than that. we need more decisive and faster implementation and more unity. for example, we are now leaders in the circular economy. but if we don't hurry, china and the united states will overtake us as new technologies become cheaper and the question of competitiveness is resolved. and these countries are faster at regulating and adapting to the market. slow is the reason we lose. we need too much time for new regulation that follows new trends, cross-sector linkages and new business models. we need too much time to connect science and business more closely and to implement other reforms that are crucial for entrepreneurs and innovators. vice president dobrovskis, that's why i'm asking you what are we going to do about that part?
madam president, i support any initiative that aims to consolidate the financial state without adding burdens to citizens and businesses. in this sense, the fight against tax evasion and money laundering is very important because otherwise the burden of filling the budget falls exclusively on honest citizens and law-abiding entrepreneurs who are forced to pay for someone else's crime. that is unacceptable. but i must express my regret that in this house we speak of taxes and fiscal consolidation solely from the position of increasing control, not from the position of relieving the tax burden of citizens and businesses. taxation, which is extremely high and complex in some member states, should be reduced and simplified, and penalties for non-payment should be tightened. that way, we would discourage non-payment and make it easier for companies to do business, to hire and to invest in r&amp;d. additional tax repression can only have negative effects.
written. ‒ i support this report concerning the proposed approval of the conclusion of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine, which will allow for the exchange of information, including the exchange of personal data.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision authorising the european police office (europol) to conclude the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol (10345/2016 c8-0267/2016 2016/0811 ((cns)) as there is a clear need to deepen europol's operational cooperation with ukraine, which is a key eu partner in the eastern partnership. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu's 'special needs' and 'special needs' programmes. in addition to the exchange of information, the agreement opens up other possibilities such as training and crime prevention activities and encouraging further coordination of strategies and action plans in the various areas of crime.
written. ‒ this proposal concerns the proposed approval of the conclusion of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine which will allow for the exchange of information, including the exchange of personal data. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities and provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. according to europol, ukraine is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime and more specifically drug-related offences, economic crime, trafficking in human beings and smuggling of goods, as well as travelling organised crime groups. the europol joint supervisory body gave a positive opinion on the conclusion of this cooperation agreement, as ukraine is a key partner of the european union within the framework of the eastern partnership and security and the fight against crime are important priorities for the full achievement of the objectives of this partnership. the exchange of information will enable the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime more effectively, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol because i believe that coordinated and guided cooperation is a key way to successfully address the whole range of security challenges facing ukraine, but also the european union as a whole. the areas where quality cooperation is needed are international organised crime, terrorism, human trafficking, smuggling of migrants and drug trafficking. in view of the current security environment in the european union, it is clear that it is in the common interest to establish high-quality cooperation in order to create a high-quality framework for the fight against international crime. it is essential that member states, through the action of europol, succeed in preventing, detecting, combating and investigating serious forms of international crime in the abovementioned areas. the exchange of strategic and technical information is important for the analysis of various threats and risks with a view to developing prevention strategies and methods for managing various crises. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. it is important, however, to ensure that data exchange is conducted through secure channels, using the highest standards of secrecy and privacy protection and anti-theft mechanisms.
written. ‒ i strongly support the conclusion of a strategic and operational cooperation agreement with ukraine as it would support and strengthen the fight against organised crime, which is by definition international, and contribute to improving international cooperation in the area of trafficking in human beings and other relevant criminal issues. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. ukraine is a key partner of the european union within the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are important priorities for the full achievement of the objectives of that partnership. the exchange of information will enable the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime more effectively. in addition to the exchange of information, the agreement also opens up opportunities such as training and crime prevention activities. the conclusion of this cooperation agreement represents a very concrete and strong step for ukraine to become a key partner in the fight against organised crime. the signing of this agreement will encourage further coordination of strategies and action plans in the different areas of crime in the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and in ukraine, on the other.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ there are clear operational needs to deepen europol's cooperation with ukraine in the fight against organised crime. the exchange of information between europol and the ukrainian authorities will allow for a more effective prevention of international crime and terrorism. the agreement also opens up opportunities such as training and crime-fighting activities, which would also be a strong step for ukraine to become a key partner of the eu in the fight against organised crime. the joint supervisory body of europol gave a positive opinion on the conclusion of that cooperation agreement taking into account the level of data protection in ukraine. i support this report because europol's cooperation with ukraine would strengthen the fight against organised crime and the agreement would also help to continue the rapprochement between the eu and ukraine.
written. ‒ i support the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. ukraine is a key partner of the european union within the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are important priorities for the full achievement of the objectives of that partnership. according to europol, ukraine is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime and more specifically drug-related offences, economic crime, trafficking in human beings and smuggling of goods, as well as travelling organised crime groups. the exchange of information will enable the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime more effectively.
written. ‒ this proposal concerns the proposed approval of the conclusion of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine under which the exchange of information, which may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities and provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations, will be enabled. ukraine is a key ally of the european union within the eastern partnership and, accordingly, an increasingly important partner in the fight against organised crime, drug trafficking, economic crime, human trafficking and smuggling of goods. the parties shall cooperate in the prevention and combating of organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime. at times of great need, such cooperation will provide additional and enhanced security and protection for all citizens of the eu member states. that's why i voted yes.
written. - i support this report on the request for waiver of immunity of jean-françois jalkh.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh on the grounds that it concerns an alleged offence of incitement to discrimination committed before mr jalkh was elected as a member of the european parliament and that the charge is not related to his function as a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh relates to the alleged offence of public incitement to discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion, whether in writing or in speech, which is a criminal offence under french law. as the alleged acts are not connected with the expression of an opinion or the voting of members of the european parliament in the exercise of their duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i have supported this report.
written. ‒ jean-françois jalkha is charged in the context of an action brought on 22 may 2014 by the association maison des potes maison de légalité before the regional court of nanterre and the public prosecutor of the court of appeal of versailles seeking the waiver of the member's parliamentary immunity in relation to the action. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of discrimination against women in the member states. jean-françois jalkh was the front national's director of publications with editorial responsibility for all the party's websites at the time of the publication of the leaflets to which the complaint relates. the declarations made in the brochure 'petit guide pratique de l'ilé municipal front national', published on 19 september 2013 and published on the front national's official website on 30 november 2013, which encourage all members of the front national elected to the office of local councillor in the elections held on 23 and 30 march 2014 to recommend that priority be given to french nationals in the allocation of social housing (priorité nationale) at the first session of the new local council. the accusation is clearly not related to jean-françois jalkha's position as a member of the european parliament, but concerns exclusively national or regional action.
written by jean-françois jalkha in the context of the action brought on 22 may 2014 by the association maison des potes maison de légalité before the regional court of nanterre (france). the indictment refers to statements made in the brochure petit guide pratique de lélu municipal front national (manual for local councillors in the front national party). the accusation is clearly not related to jean-françois jalkha's position as a member of the european parliament, but relates exclusively to national or regional activities. i support the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh because the alleged acts are not connected with the expression of an opinion or the vote of a member of the european parliament.
‒ the french minister of justice and freedom has sent a request to the european parliament to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkh mp for a judicial investigation concerning the alleged criminal offence of public incitement to discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion in oral or written form or the use of images or electronic publications of an unknown person or persons. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the applicant has been granted the right to benefit from the scheme. the judicial investigation will be launched against jalkha as he was at that time the director of publications of that party and had editorial responsibility for all the party's websites. as jalkh was not a member of the european parliament at the time and there is no doubt that this lawsuit is an attempt to interfere with his parliamentary work, i supported the request for waiver of immunity.
written. - i support this report on the request for waiver of immunity of jean-françois jalkh.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh because it concerns a lawsuit for an alleged offence of incitement to discrimination which occurred before mr jalkh took up his duties as a member of the european parliament.
‒ the public prosecutor of the paris court of appeal has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament, in connection with a prosecution for an alleged criminal offence of incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons on the grounds of origin or membership or non-membership of a particular ethnic group, nation, race or religion, an offence punishable under french law. the commission has also provided information to the french authorities indicating that the french authorities have not provided any evidence to support the allegations made by the commission in the course of the investigation. for all these reasons, i have supported this report.
‒ the bureau national de vigilance contre l'antisémitisme accuses jean-françois jalkha in a complaint lodged with the competent prosecutor in paris on 12 august 2014 and requested by the public prosecutor of the paris court of appeal to waive the parliamentary immunity of the member of the european parliament. the waiver of immunity is linked to the alleged criminal offence of incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or group of persons on grounds of origin or membership or non-membership of a particular ethnic group, nation, race or religion, an offence punishable under french law. jean-françois jalkh was the director of publications of the front national's official website at the time of the publication of the contested statements on that website. the lawsuit refers to statements made by jean-marie le pen during an interview published on the website "frontnational.com" and then on the blog "jeanmarielepen.com" on 6 june 2014, in which he reacted to the mention of the name of the singer patrick bruel in the audience, who had previously stated that he could no longer perform in cities where mayors from the front national were elected, and said about this: "it does not surprise me. listen, next time we'll throw them all in the furnace together. the accusation is clearly not related to jean-françois jalkha's position as a member of the european parliament, but concerns exclusively national or regional action.
‒ jean-françois jalkha is charged in the context of the action brought on 12 august 2014 by the association 'bureau national de vigilance contre l'antisémitisme' against the competent public prosecutor in paris. the indictment refers to statements made during an interview published on the website frontnational.com and then on the blog jeanmarielepen.com. the accusation is clearly not related to jean-françois jalkha's position as a member of the european parliament, but relates exclusively to national or regional activities. i support the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh because the alleged acts are not connected with the expression of an opinion or the vote of a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr jean-françois jalku. whereas jean-françois jalkha is charged, in the context of the action brought on 22 may 2014 by the association maison des potes maison de légalité before the regional court of nanterre, with the offences of public incitement to discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion, under article 131 (2) and (3) of the french criminal code, allegedly committed on 19 september 2013, the accused was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the alleged offence. the immunity of members of the european parliament shall protect them against any offence directly and manifestly connected with the performance of their duties. since the alleged misconduct of mr jean-françois jalku is not directly related to his duties and was not possibly committed during his term of office, i consider that the request for waiver of immunity is justified.
written. ‒ a judicial investigation has been opened against the member of the european parliament, jean-françois jalkha, for the alleged criminal offence of incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons on the grounds of origin or membership or non-membership of a particular ethnic group, nation, race or religion, brought by the bureau national de vigilance contre l'antisémitisme (national anti-semitism office) on 12 august 2014. in june 2014, jalkh was the director of publications for the front national's official website, which published an interview with jean-marie le pen on 6 june 2014. in that interview, le pen referred to the statement by singer patrick bruel that he could no longer perform in cities where mayors from the front national were elected. le pen said: "it does not surprise me. listen, next time we'll throw them all in the furnace together. since jean-françois jalkh had not yet taken up his duties as a member of the european parliament, the charge was not related to his position as a member of parliament but only to his national or regional activities and his position as director of publications in the party, i supported the request to waive his immunity.
written. ‒ i support this report, which, after a long-standing dispute over the ep's powers as a fisheries policy legislator and the positive judgment of the european court of justice, contributes constructively to the rapid development of a revised plan that is fully in line with the principles of the reformed cfp.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation adopting a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, as it accepts the council's position. i believe that the maximum sustainable yield principle should be fully implemented by establishing rules on fishing quotas and the obligation to land cod stocks in good time. i believe that maritime and fisheries policy should be based on sustainable measures and principles and in accordance with national and international provisions. that is why i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ i support the amendment to the council regulation establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the scientific evaluation of the effectiveness of council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008, carried out in 2011, concluded that the plan for cod stocks and the fishery exploitation of those stocks has not achieved its objectives but that there is a prospect of achieving them in 2015. the commission should be able to request the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is to be consulted by the european parliament and the council. the exemptions are based on criteria that would be generally applicable to all vessels, regardless of their member state of origin, instead of excluding vessels designated by each member state. the commission has also concluded that the exemption from the landing obligation for the stock of cod in the baltic sea is justified by the fact that the fishing opportunities for cod in the baltic sea are limited to the minimum necessary for the fishery to be exploited. i also support efforts to reduce and phase out discards based on scientific assessments with a view to conserving fish stocks. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to supplement this regulation by establishing the fishing opportunities set out in annex ii to this regulation.
written. ‒ in a long-standing dispute over the role of the european parliament as co-legislator in the field of fisheries policy, the court of justice of the european union has supported parliament's position that planning for multiannual management is decided within the framework of the ordinary legislative procedures, i.e. under article 43 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which is the basis of the measures necessary to achieve the objectives of the common agricultural and fisheries policy. following the judgment of the court of justice of the european union, the pech committee adopted a mandate for negotiations with the council on 19 april 2016 and the matter was closed in a trilogue on 29 june 2016. the pech committee adopted on 11 july 2016 that agreement applying the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. my group supports the adoption as soon as possible of a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks - legislative clarity is needed for fishermen.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. i believe that this motion for a resolution is necessary to launch the second reading legislative procedure and to reach a consensus at the level of the relevant legislative institutions of the european union and to establish a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks.
written. ‒ i supported a recommendation that would allow cod catches to be above the level acceptable for achieving sustainable cod stocks, and these measures should apply from 1 january 2017 for the kattegat, skagerrak, north sea, eastern channel, areas west of scotland and the irish sea. the objective of these measures is to ensure that cod is restored to a number that will allow a sustainable fishery. i also believe that each eu member state should find its own way to protect itself from unwanted fishing in order to keep cod stocks above acceptable levels.
written. ‒ i am voting in favour of amending the council regulation on the adoption of a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. there is a clear need to ensure the consistent implementation of all council decisions, particularly when it comes to fisheries policy. overfishing of cod can threaten the stability of marine flora and fauna and have a significant impact on the related industry.
written. - i support this report. the automatic and mandatory exchange of data between tax authorities against money laundering is a new step forward in the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council directive amending the directive on access to information by tax authorities for the prevention of money laundering, because i believe that there is a need to ensure more efficient, clearer and fairer taxation in the european union. i support measures that give tax authorities access to all the information they need to carry out their duties effectively. this shall provide access to the mechanisms, documents, procedures and information necessary to strengthen the european and international transparency framework and to prevent money laundering. in addition, it is necessary to exchange information automatically between tax authorities and to strengthen international cooperation in this area.
the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the conditions for the application of this regulation, including the conditions for the application of the provisions of this regulation. that directive introduces a global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters within the union. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules on the reporting of financial account holders to the member state in which the account holder is resident. cases such as swissleaks and the panama papers have once again confirmed the need for greater tax transparency and closer coordination between institutions, and given the global nature of anti-money laundering activities, international cooperation is key to effectively and efficiently combating such activities. the existence of an automatic, mandatory and permanent exchange of information in the field of taxation between the different competent authorities is essential to ensure maximum transparency and to obtain a basic instrument for preventing and combating fraud of all kinds. the mandatory automatic exchange of information on tax matters is internationally recognised as the most effective instrument in the service of international tax transparency at the level of the g20, the oecd and the european union. i consider that the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance is an absolute priority for the union, and i have therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ i support this proposal to amend directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation by introducing measures to allow tax authorities to have consistent access to information on money laundering. the panama papers scandal, which exposed the massive concealment of money in so-called offshore accounts, has shown us that we need to insist on greater transparency and control. offshore companies operate in legal transactions without major assets, and for registration they only need personal data, an open giro account and a postal envelope. they are usually opened in countries with low tax rates. the way these companies operate in these countries allows their founders to move money abroad and thus avoid paying taxes. this in itself distorts the tax system of the country of residence of the recipient of those services and leads to large-scale tax fraud. the purpose of the report is to enable tax authorities to have constant access to anti-money laundering information to perform their duties in monitoring the proper application of directive 2011/16/eu, and the automatic exchange of documents and information is requested.
written. ‒ the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, including money laundering, is an absolute priority for the union. the findings in the swissleaks, luxleaks, panama documents and bahama documents cases, which are individual manifestations of a global phenomenon, have once again confirmed that greater tax transparency and much closer coordination between jurisdictions is of the utmost importance. in view of their global nature, international cooperation is essential to combat such activities effectively and efficiently. council directive 2011/16/eu11 establishes a global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters within the union. the competent authority of the member state of residence shall ensure that the information on the account holder is provided to the competent authority of the member state of the account holder's residence in accordance with the procedures set out in article 7 of directive 2013/36/eu. tax authorities need quick and complete access to aml information and sufficient staff with appropriate skills to be available. such access should be the result of a mandatory automatic exchange of information. without such access and appropriate staff, those authorities would not be able to monitor, confirm and audit that financial institutions are correctly applying directive 2011/16/eu by correctly identifying and reporting the beneficial owners of intermediary structures.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the european commission is implementing an ambitious programme against tax evasion and avoidance. the recent leaks by the media revealing the concealment of large-scale extraterritorial assets confirm the importance of the eu's tax transparency programme. it has become apparent that tax authorities need greater access to anti-money laundering (aml) and beneficial ownership information of intermediary entities, all with the aim of identifying and preventing tax evasion. the report also provides a summary of the main findings of the aml/cft investigation. i support this report because the successful collection of information on tax liabilities and the prevention of money laundering will contribute to more efficient tax collection and fairer and more effective taxation in the european union.
written. ‒ i support the draft european parliament resolution on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities on the prevention of money laundering. i believe that adequate cooperation is needed both at the level of the institutions of the european union and at the level of the institutions of the member states in order to tackle the criminal mechanism of money laundering. the novelty introduced by this report, which allows the tax authorities of the member states to exchange money laundering documents automatically with each other, contributes to the necessary strengthening of the union's preventive apparatus. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the provisions of the directive to the newly created legal entity. a well-established cooperation at european union level is of paramount importance in order to combat economically organised crime. i expect joint action to be taken in this direction and i call for more effective action in the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office whose envisaged task is precisely to establish a single european mechanism to prosecute the perpetrators of financial crime, including money laundering.
written. ‒ this report is advisory in nature. parliament shall be consulted and may reject, accept or propose amendments to the legislative proposal. the council is not legally obliged to take parliament's opinion into account, but it cannot take a final decision until parliament has been consulted. the purpose of this council of europe regulation is to enable tax authorities to have permanent access to information concerning money laundering, in relation to their duty to monitor the correct application of the administrative cooperation directive (dac) by financial institutions, e.g. foundations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's anti-money laundering legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's anti-money laundering legislation. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ i support this report, which welcomes the efforts made so far by the european central bank, but also takes the view that the ecb alone cannot stimulate aggregate demand unless it is complemented by investment and by ambitious and socially balanced structural reform programmes at member state level.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the annual report of the european central bank for 2015 (2016/2063(ini)) taking into account its contribution to defending the euro and ensuring the financial stability of the euro area. a single monetary policy alone cannot stimulate demand if there are no sound fiscal policies and socially balanced structural reform programmes at member state level. it is necessary to ensure a more favourable financing rate for smes and to reduce the existing imbalance between the financing rate for smes and that for larger companies, then between the interest rates for small and large loans, and to reduce the differences in the conditions of lending to smes in different euro area countries. it is necessary to continue with monetary policy measures that make the euro area attractive for investment. the ecb should monitor closely the risk of a resumption of the asset and real estate bubble due to the policy of extremely low (negative) interest rates. the independence of the ecb and its role in maintaining financial stability should be respected. unfortunately, the euro area continues to be negatively affected by high unemployment, excessively low inflation, large macroeconomic imbalances, current account imbalances, low levels of productivity growth and a lack of investment.
written. ‒ the euro area continues to be negatively affected by high unemployment, excessively low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances, and low productivity levels as a consequence of underinvestment and the failure to implement structural reforms. this report provides an overview of the ecb's annual report for 2015, which focused on the recovery of the euro area economy, continued low inflation, the effects of low interest rates and the ecb's decision on the asset purchase programme. the report notes that the high level of public debt and the still undercapitalised banking sector in some member states are causing fragmentation of the euro area financial market. the solution lies in sound fiscal policies and socially balanced structural reforms geared to productivity, as a single monetary policy alone cannot stimulate aggregate demand unless member states pursue sound fiscal policies and ambitious and socially balanced structural reform programmes. the report provides a balanced assessment of the interdependence of monetary policy and structural reforms and the risks of low interest rate policy, which is why i supported it.
written. ‒ the primary task of the escb (european system of central banks) is to ensure price stability and to support the general economic policy of the union. the exceptional measures adopted by the ecb would raise inflation to the level of the medium-term objective of 2%. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any evidence that the bank has been able to repay the loans it granted to the sampled companies. the report focuses on the core elements of the ecb's activity, i.e. monetary policy. the ecb's annual report on the functioning of the european system of central banks (escb) is published in the official journal of the european union. the eurosystem should assign credit ratings that complement those assigned by private agencies in order to assess the suitability of public debt securities for the app. the text as finally adopted leads to a balanced assessment of the ecb's purchase of programme assets (app), but requires an impact study with regard to the secondary market for public debt. in line with the epp's priorities, this report provides a balanced assessment of monetary policy and structural reforms and of the risks of low interest rate policies.
written. ‒ the ecb cannot stimulate demand on its own, investment and ambitious and socially balanced structural reforms at member state level are needed. the euro area continues to be negatively affected by high unemployment and large macroeconomic imbalances. only sound fiscal policies and productivity-enhancing reforms can drive sustainable improvements in the economy in the long term. i am concerned about the potential consequences of negative interest rate policies for individual savers and the financial balance of pension systems and in terms of the creation of a bubble in the property market. the negative effects on income could lead to an increase in household savings rates, which would harm domestic demand. i call on the ecb to carefully assess the risk of a re-emergence of a bubble in the property and real estate markets. the ecb's current policies weaken the link between providing central bank liquidity and lending to the real economy. the commission also found that the banks had a significantly higher risk of defaulting on their loan obligations than the banks in the union. the demographic deficit in europe should also be taken into account in addressing deflationary pressures, creating incentives to establish a more balanced demographic structure. the danger of negative investment expectations in the event of unfavourable demographic trends cannot be ignored. i welcome the publication of the minutes of the council meeting and encourage the ecb to continue its efforts in transparency.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the euro area continues to be negatively affected by high unemployment, excessively low inflation (below the 2% target) and large macroeconomic imbalances. the ecb's single monetary policy alone cannot stimulate aggregate demand without sound fiscal policies and ambitious and socially balanced structural reform programmes. some member states may use low (negative) interest rates to delay structural reforms. the rapporteur is concerned about the potential consequences of negative interest rate policies for savers and the financial balance of pension systems and stresses that the end of these ultra-low (negative) interest rates should be managed by the ecb in a correct, prudent and timely manner. i support this report and welcome the categorical pledge by the european central bank in august 2012 to 'do whatever is necessary' to defend the euro, which is crucial to ensuring the financial stability of the euro area.
written. ‒ i support the report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2015. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application. the emphasis on european monetary policy and the insistence on the independence of the european central bank in its implementation is key to maintaining price stability in the member states of the european union. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the financial crisis in the euro area has led to a significant increase in the number of banks that are not yet fully operational, and that the number of banks that are still operating has increased. finally, the call on the european central bank to respect the principle of proportionality in the conduct of monetary policy is a commendable request.
written. ‒ i am pleased that the rapporteurs have approached the subject of the european central bank and its policy with extreme sensitivity. it is particularly encouraging to see critical remarks on problematic points such as the effects that a policy of very low (or negative) interest rates can cause. however, i cannot agree with some elements contained in the report, in particular the claim that the extraordinary expansionary policy of the european central bank such as asset purchases, targeted long-term refinancing operations, etc., is consistent and complementary with its mandate. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support the annual report of the european central bank for 2015. the european central bank is the supreme body for the conduct of monetary policy in the european union. it is important that this body has independence in the operation and implementation of measures aimed at creating a stable banking system and maintaining the level of inflation and interest rates. however, as the report itself well identified - measures of economic development and growth cannot depend on monetary policy alone, a whole range of other mechanisms need to be engaged to create a healthy foundation for future economic growth. i support the idea of an independent body at european level to determine the credit rating of member states because of the repeatedly observed errors in the work of private rating agencies. i agree that the work of the european central bank should be as transparent as possible and that there should be a publicity of work to the extent that it does not interfere with normal work.
written. - i support this report. i believe that the further development of this single market for retail financial services in a digitised world will only work if a sufficient level of consumer protection is ensured through better information and transparency. the commission must propose a coherent action plan, including concrete legislative proposals, to create an eu market where well-protected consumers have equal opportunities and access to transparent and well-priced products.
written. ‒ i voted for the green paper on retail financial services because i believe it is important that the new proposals benefit all eu consumers to ensure that the retail financial services market works for everyone. the market is still quite underdeveloped and highly fragmented in the eu, which requires effective measures to unlock its full potential as a single market and to facilitate innovation for the benefit of end-users. the green paper report, which i voted for, is about financial services offered to citizens seeking cross-border services, especially in relation to the rapid changes brought about by digitalisation and innovation in financial technologies. there is great potential to create new and better financial products, reduce transaction costs, facilitate access to finance, security and data protection.
written. ‒ retail finance provides a range of services that are important to citizens: current accounts, pensions and savings, mortgages and financing of other purchases, health or accident insurance and property insurance. the green paper explores the current state of the single market for retail financial services, as well as the recent trend towards digitalisation, and the need to act at eu or national level to overcome the barriers currently stopping consumers and businesses from moving across borders. the green paper is an opportunity to propose a european market for financial services such as insurance, credit, electricity and savings accounts and other retail investments and how to open up to these services, thereby creating better conditions for consumers and businesses, while maintaining a level of consumer and investor protection. it also examines the obstacles faced by consumers and businesses in using the single market. for all of the above, i supported the green paper on retail financial services.
written. ‒ effective measures are needed to unlock the full potential of the single market namely, the retail financial services market in the eu is still quite underdeveloped and fragmented. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the retail financial services market. only in this way can we make the eu a hub for innovative financial services. i welcome the holding of a public consultation on the green paper on retail financial services, during which all stakeholders were given the opportunity to express an opinion created on the basis of the specificity of their activities. the rapid changes brought about by digitalisation and innovation in financial technologies have the potential to create new and often better financial products. the green paper initiative can only succeed if it is firmly focused on creating an eu market in which well-protected consumers have equal opportunities and access to transparent products of quality at a price. in all the measures we take in the area of retail financial services, we have to have an inclusion aspect in mind. financial exclusion is a widespread and serious problem throughout europe. life becomes very difficult without reasonable access to even the most basic financial services. i want to emphasize the importance of financial education as a tool to protect and empower consumers - we need to make access to independent financial education easier for everyone.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ digitalisation will increase the competitiveness, cross-border activity and innovation of financial service providers, and this will create new opportunities for consumers, investors, smes and other types of businesses. a functioning european market for retail financial services cannot rely on digitalisation alone, as it is not able to overcome numerous obstacles such as different tax, social, legal and health systems, contractual and consumer protection mechanisms, as well as different languages and cultures. the comparability of financial products across member states' markets, in particular in the insurance sector, will be improved by simplifying and harmonising their legislation. i support this report because europe needs a change of mindset and a rapid response of regulators to technological developments and a substantial increase in investment in financial technologies to become the leading market for innovation in this area.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the green paper on retail financial services. i considered that it was necessary to call on the commission to intervene more decisively in the fight against discrimination based on residence in the european retail financial services market and to complement, if necessary, the envisaged general proposals to end unjustified denial of access on the basis of location with additional legislative initiatives specifically targeting the financial sector, bearing in mind that the price of some products and some services is linked to a number of factors (regulatory or geographical) which differ from one member state to another. the commission notes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that the commission has not received any comments from the croatian authorities. if one of the fundamental principles of the european union, the principle of equality, is to be realised, i believe it is necessary to trigger a mechanism to combat discrimination on grounds of residence, at the same time by means of legally binding and preventive measures. although there are other qualitative aspects to this motion for a resolution, i believe that this is precisely the most valuable.
written. ‒ i believe that the european union needs to have legislation adapted to the rapid changes in the market, and member states need to implement these policies. this will facilitate cross-border activities, which will greatly benefit consumers, investors and innovative businesses. although the report contains some elements with which i do not agree, such as the reference to the common tax identification number of the european union, i believe that the report will bring new, positive possibilities for the overall functioning of the european union economy, and therefore i voted in favour of its adoption.
written. ‒ i support the green paper on retail financial services. i consider it crucial that there are no significant barriers to retail financial services such as current accounts, pensions and savings, mortgages and financing of other purchases, health or accident insurance and property insurance. these services are important in the daily lives of citizens and there is often a need to use them. the green paper on retail financial services provides the opportunity to make proposals for the creation of a european market for retail services. it is necessary to identify the barriers faced by consumers and businesses at union level and to harmonise practices so that barriers cause the least possible harm to the overall economy and the financial market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change.
written. ‒ i support this report on developments in the field of defence and security policy, which is a step forward towards a substantially increased eu self-defence capability to protect its citizens and promote its values and interests, in full respect of international law treaties and the protection of human rights.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european defence union (2016/2052(ini) as there is a clear need to change the current model as the security situation in europe and its neighbourhood has deteriorated significantly in recent years and has created new challenges that no country can tackle alone. military threats, terrorism, hybrid threats, economic instability, cyber and energy insecurity, organized crime represent the main security threats in an increasingly complex and interconnected world. the cost of a disunited europe in the area of defence and security is estimated at eur 26,4 billion per year. in order to achieve its long-term security, europe needs not only political will but also a number of concrete instruments, including the formulation of a common defence policy, and additional means to realise modern military capabilities. it is necessary to establish a council of defence ministers in order to provide sustainable political leadership and coordinate the shaping of the european defence union. while nato must remain the foundation of collective defence in europe, nato's and the eu's political priorities do not always have to be the same, and the eu must be better prepared to provide its own security against possible threats. it is necessary to adopt as soon as possible a strategy outlining the steps to be taken to establish and implement a european defence union.
written. ‒ the security situation in europe and its neighbourhood has deteriorated significantly in recent years and has created a number of new challenges, therefore an organisational review is needed to unlock the full potential of the european defence agency and prove that it creates added value. to guarantee its long-term security, europe needs political will, determination and strong and modern military capabilities. the european council should take the lead in the progressive framing of the union's common defence policy. the eu must seek to act independently in defence, taking greater responsibility by improving equipment, training and organisation. member states must endeavour to achieve the target of spending 2% of gdp on defence and to spend 20% of their defence budgets on equipment identified by the european defence agency as necessary. i believe in the importance of cooperation in defence policy, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the report on the european defence union and i believe that the time has come for member states to come to the table and agree and define a clear position on this issue. without repeating the danger and importance of a coordinated approach to security challenges, which i think are well defined in the text, i must point out one important item that i think has been left out of the clear definition, and that is institutional building of failed states. the european union must define clear objectives in its foreign policy and act accordingly. our mission must be to build post-conflict societies, mediate between warring parties and promote european values of democracy and respect for human rights. i think that part should be incorporated into the text of the report. the growing instability and uncertainty of the european union's alliance with the world's great powers calls for a necessary revision not only of defence policy but of the union's wider foreign policy, which is incoherent and inconsistent. the establishment of the european defence community is a clear and important step forward in strengthening the european union's autonomy and capabilities in the field of defence and security, and i welcome the report's findings.
written. ‒ the establishment of a common union defence policy is essential for the eu to promote the rule of law, peace and security at global level. i therefore call on the member states to unlock the full potential of the lisbon treaty in terms of defence and security policy, in particular in terms of permanent structured cooperation. a truly strong european defence union can offer member states guarantees and capabilities beyond those they have themselves, which is particularly needed in the face of the deteriorating security environment at the european union's borders. the agency's strong role is necessary for the effective coordination of programmes and projects and the establishment of a common european capacity and armaments policy, avoiding duplication and reducing costs. i welcome the joint statement by the presidents of the european council and the european commission and the nato secretary-general of july 2016 highlighting the need for cooperation in the field of security and defence. i call on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to launch a white paper on eu security and defence, based on the eu global strategy. i therefore ask the council to assign the task of drawing up this document without delay. i also want to highlight cybersecurity - here cooperation and integration are crucial, not only between eu member states, key partners and nato but also between different actors in society because it's not just about military responsibility.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the eu needs to think about its defence policy in the long term. a strategy with steps to establish a european defence union is needed. the european council is invited to take concrete steps towards harmonising and standardising european armed forces with a view to better cooperation within the new european defence union. a permanent council of defence ministers should be established and the concept of eu combat groups reformed with the aim of establishing permanent units that would be independent of any host state and have systematic joint training and drill. strategic autonomy and the shaping of the european defence union must be achieved in full synergy with nato and must lead to more effective cooperation, fair burden-sharing and a productive division of labour between nato and the eu. i support this report because the deterioration of the security environment on the eastern and southern borders of the european union calls for the urgent establishment of a european defence union.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the european defence union. i believe that europe needs a strong european defence union that will offer member states greater guarantees and capabilities than they have. the european union should allocate own resources to supporting stronger and more systematic european defence cooperation between its member states, including permanent structured cooperation. i am convinced that the use of eu funds would clearly demonstrate cohesion and solidarity and would thus allow all member states to improve their military capabilities through more intensive joint efforts. in addition, the activation of the military industry with a view to creating a european defence union would activate the upsurge of economic development of all member states by employing the population in various production sectors. in addition to bringing the security that is so necessary in today's modern age, a european defence union would also contribute to the economic progress of the member states.
written. ‒ i voted against because i firmly believe that competence over defence policy must always be and remain the competence of national states as the basis of national sovereignty. in this sense, i support the nato organisation as the basis for defence and security cooperation between the european union and the transatlantic allies. i therefore strongly oppose the increasingly vocal proposals at eu level calling for the creation of a european union army and the associated expensive military structures. in my view, that proposal, apart from the financial loss, could only result in an irreparable loss of trust by our current nato allies and thereby significantly weaken our ties with our international defence partners. all the more so as we live in times of extreme uncertainty, constant terrorist threats and regional conflicts around the world.
written. ‒ the strengthening of the position on the need to create a european defence union comes at a time when the international foreign and security situation and the european union environment are undergoing crises and instabilities that could result in a wider wave of destabilisation. a coordinated approach to the many security challenges faced by member states in their immediate neighbourhood, as well as within their own territory, is essential to ensure stability and a level of security throughout the union. a review of european security and defence policy is important in the light of recent events, in particular the results of the us presidential elections. the european union must be able to defend itself against military and civilian threats. i support this report and hope that it will be a good basis for future constructive discussion on the direction in which european defence and security capacities will develop. the european union needs to develop a clear, consistent and coherent foreign policy, and the creation of a european defence community is one of the key steps in this process.
written. ‒ i support this report on realising the potential of passenger water transport. passenger shipping can be an environmentally and consumer friendly mode of transport, as well as an essential service for tourists and travellers in remote/coastal areas. further measures can be taken to promote this mode of transport, which can have a positive impact on the economic development of coastal areas and the release of congestion on land.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on realising the potential of passenger transport by waterways, as it improves various aspects of passenger transport within the union. it increases the safety of passengers on ships sailing in eu waters, revitalizes the tourism potential of remote local communities and increases environmental efficiency, and thus quality of life. this also reduces co2 emissions and congestion on the roads, and it is important to note that waterways are not only used for inland navigation but increasingly also along the coast. therefore, i consider it necessary to ensure a better quality of mobility services in order to enhance their reliability, comfort, timeliness and frequency by reducing pressure on the logistics chain and attracting passengers.
written. ‒ passenger water transport plays a key role in creating a more sustainable european transport sector. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the use of the infrastructure. there are many european regions where ferry or round-trip transport would be more sustainable, easier and faster, thus increasing their social and economic well-being while protecting the environment and the health of europe's citizens. in addition to the potential of small vessels to significantly improve environmental performance, they could also be used to provide transport services of key importance to remote local communities and to revitalise their tourism potential. passenger ships play an important role in the mobility of citizens, with more than 400 million people passing through eu ports every year. eu legislation on passenger ship safety has been in place for 15 years, resulting in greater safety for passengers and easier search and rescue operations. however, there is additional scope for better implementation of existing rules and simplification of the current legislative framework and therefore more use should be made of the available financial resources of the eu funds. for all these reasons, i have supported this report.
written. ‒ i supported this report because using maritime transport for passenger transport has multiple benefits. today 75% of europe's trade with other countries and 40% of its intra-european freight traffic is carried by waterways, and to this statistic we must add passenger transport precisely because of its cost-effectiveness and minimal co2 emissions. europe, because of its geographical features, has great potential for a high-quality passenger shipping network, whether sea or river, and if we achieve it, we are making a step forward towards achieving several european objectives. first of all, we make transportation easier for passengers and more economically affordable. the commission notes that the aid granted to the airlines concerned is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the airport services. apart from tourism, the development of such transport would increase the quality of life of the islanders themselves, who today have to travel 3-6 hours to cover a distance of 94 km (example: split-lastovo), whether they need to go to an emergency doctor or just to the bank. we also need to take into account the environmental targets we have set for ourselves, which this report is in line with. by encouraging people to use this form of transport, through affordable costs and quality of service, we would reduce the daily use of cars and thus the air pollution.
written. ‒ europe's geographical features, its long coastline and its numerous islands and rivers offer excellent opportunities for sustainable passenger waterways and must be given greater attention in the eu's transport policy agenda. efforts should be directed towards the creation of a 'single area for passenger waterways'. passenger water transport offers great potential to exploit the available overcapacity both in terms of infrastructure and vessels and plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union, making it an important factor in promoting cohesion. the integration of waterborne passenger traffic into urban public transport networks could significantly improve efficiency in terms of mobility, environmental protection, quality of life, cost-effectiveness, land transport network relief and comfort in cities. the commission should also take into account that tourism in coastal regions and islands is underdeveloped due to a lack of connectivity. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between the cci and the cci-airport was signed on 20 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. the waterway passenger sector is also important in areas where there is currently no economic justification such as less populated remote islands. the framework for ensuring links with islands and island and remote regions should be promoted, with measures to allow for better ferry quality and suitable terminals.
written. ‒ waterway passenger transport is an ideal alternative to tackle the growing problem of congestion across the european union. it is the most sustainable way of travelling and its integration into urban public transport networks would significantly improve efficiency in terms of mobility, environmental protection, quality of life, affordability and comfort in cities. although the republic of croatia is primarily an adriatic and mediterranean country oriented towards the sea and maritime traffic, the extremely favourable geographical position of inland waterways, with an emphasis on the danube river, plays an important role, giving croatia a geostrategic position in terms of enabling the development of intermodal transport and connecting central and western europe with the adriatic sea. however, this sector in croatia has a number of weaknesses that need to be addressed as soon as possible. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the safety of passengers and on the safety of the air carriers. i supported the proposal for a european parliament and council directive, taking into account the above factors and the objectives achieved at cop 21 in terms of reducing co2 emissions, in order to contribute to sustainable solutions for a cheaper, cleaner and greener transport sector.
‒ europe's geographical features, its long coastlines and its numerous islands, rivers and canals offer excellent opportunities for sustainable passenger waterways. the integration of waterborne passenger traffic into urban public transport networks could significantly improve environmental protection, relieve urban land transport networks and employ excess capacity of water infrastructure and vessels. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. we welcome the commission's new legislative proposals which seek to simplify and improve the common rules on the safety of passenger ships in eu waters. i support this report because it shows the great potential of using transport waterways as excellent alternatives to the congested roads that lead to the city centres.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on realising the potential of passenger transport by waterways. this resolution will allow for better use to be made of the available capacity for passenger traffic on waterways, which is abundant given europe's geographical features, which include numerous rivers, waterways, estuaries, long coasts and islands. it also provides an alternative to congested city roads, improves road safety and lays the foundation for reducing car emissions. the commission's call to the european commission highlighting the importance of the waterway passenger sector in developing sustainable tourism and addressing the seasonal nature of tourism, especially in remote and peripheral regions of the union such as coastal, island, lake and rural regions, is of particular importance. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests and ecosystems, and to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment.
written. ‒ the report on realising the potential of passenger water transport is a step towards simplifying and improving member states' rules on passenger water transport. the report promotes the development of motorways of the sea with the aim of achieving integration of this mode of transport with other transport networks and modes of transport and removing obstacles to uninterrupted passenger transport, the so-called bottlenecks. i particularly welcome the recognition of the importance of this sector in developing sustainable tourism and addressing the seasonal nature of tourism, especially in remote and peripheral regions, and the call to the commission, the member states and local and regional authorities to make the most of the funding opportunities offered by the european union to smes as focal points for the promotion of tourism services, including subsidies to local communities in peripheral regions. as this report provides a framework for achieving more effective links between islands, island regions and remote regions, i voted in favour of its adoption.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr taylor on the potential of passenger waterways. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on maritime transport and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on maritime transport. passenger water transport is also environmentally friendly because it is cost-effective and emits a minimum amount of carbon dioxide. the european potential for developing passenger traffic is quite large, both because of the extensive river network and because of the long coastline and the separation of the coast. the establishment of a high-quality waterway network is also a prerequisite for the economic development of those parts of the union which, due to the lack of transport infrastructure (road or rail), do not have the same path of development.
written. ‒ i support this report on the effectiveness of development cooperation. i believe that the eu needs to ensure more effective development cooperation if it is to have a real impact on poverty alleviation in the context of the growing humanitarian and development crisis and resource scarcity.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation because i believe it has a key role to play in eradicating poverty, reducing inequality, providing essential public services and supporting good governance. official development assistance is more flexible, predictable and accountable than other flows that can contribute to development. this report, which i support, encourages the eu and all member states to fulfil their long-term commitment to allocate 0.7% of their gni to aid, to increase their development aid, including through the eu budget and the european development fund, and to adopt an effective plan to achieve the target of this commitment in a transparent, predictable and accountable manner.
‒ the eu, as the world's largest donor of development aid, has a special responsibility to improve the efficiency and accountability of its aid around the world. the report stresses the need for the eu to become a leader in global efforts to promote the implementation of development efficiency programmes and to ensure that transparency, good governance and the rule of law are given top priority in developing countries. the global partnership is based on the busan partnership agreement of december 2011, which has been endorsed by 161 countries and territories and 54 international organisations. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission. the report stresses that the eu, which has played a leading role in the preparation of the current standards for aid and development effectiveness and in the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, should continue to lead in these areas and contribute to considering their interconnections and synergies. the eu has taken important steps to increase the transparency of aid, to promote joint programming, to address conflict and instability, and to measure results. i supported this report which also stresses the need for the countries receiving development aid to respect human rights and have legitimate and inclusive governance, so that the development aid they receive helps reduce poverty.
written. ‒ i support this report because the european union has long been committed to improving aid and efficiency through the development of cooperation, and this is clearly reflected in this report. it reaffirms the importance of development assistance and sustainable development financing while promoting an approach that goes beyond aid. given the limited resources and the need to use the principle of 'doing more with less', efficiency is the primary issue that this report seeks to address in order to move closer to the goals of poverty alleviation, local community empowerment and national resilience. i also think that transparency of aid is a very important factor in order to be able to track who is giving aid and, more importantly, who and how much aid is getting. the global partnership for effective development cooperation should play a key role here in terms of transparency, but also in terms of the principle of effectiveness for achieving the sdgs and supporting their implementation by all actors at the national level. this will allow for a better quality of development cooperation and a more transparent monitoring of aid.
written. ‒ all the high-level political pledges from previous declarations, concluding with the fourth forum on aid effectiveness in busan, have the same objective, namely to improve the overall impact of state aid for development. the principles of aid effectiveness have contributed to progress towards the mdgs, although progress remains uneven. i call for the use of all development policy tools in eradicating poverty and promoting the sustainable development goals. the effectiveness of development finance should be assessed on the basis of concrete results. i call on the gpedc parties to consider establishing a more independent permanent secretariat with more appropriate resources and building on the work of the joint support group. the parliaments of recipient countries should adopt national development aid policies to increase the accountability of donors and recipient governments, including local authorities, improve public financial management and absorption capacity. the role of citizens, elected representatives, faith-based organisations, civil society organisations, academia, trade unions and the private sector in development must not be underestimated - all these stakeholders must therefore be involved in promoting and implementing efficiency programmes. joint programming would reduce the fragmentation of aid and transaction costs, increase complementarity through better division of labour, and increase the accountability and predictability of development cooperation, which would represent clear benefits for both the eu and partner countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the eu has a long-term commitment to improving the effectiveness of aid to developing countries and their progress through development cooperation. the report calls for better coordination among global actors in international aid and development promotion. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the local government must take some responsibility. it is therefore important to involve local actors and society in the implementation of projects. without peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law, effective implementation of development projects cannot be achieved. i support this report because it calls for the use of all development policy tools in poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development goals and stresses that the effectiveness of development finance should be assessed on the basis of concrete results.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. i believe that the motion for a resolution is a follow-up to the legal acquis of the 2005 paris declaration, the 2008 accra action plan and the 2010 busan g20. as the european union has committed itself to leading the development performance agenda and to being the creator of the global development architecture, i consider this resolution to be an indicator of the consistency of the union's path. the eu has taken important steps to increase the transparency of aid, to improve joint programming, to address conflict and instability, and to measure results. in particular, progress should be noted in the area of joint programming, which now covers more than half of the partner countries receiving eu development assistance.
written. ‒ while development aid has contributed to the progress of many countries, progress remains uneven because the principles of its implementation are not respected equally in all countries. this is why the european union and the member states must work towards developing more flexible, predictable and responsible projects that contribute more to development. i believe that the sustainable development goal of peace, justice and strong institutions is of the utmost importance for the effectiveness of development aid, as the rule of law and respect for human rights in developing countries are essential elements for the delivery of development aid and poverty reduction. in particular, i support the view that at eu and global level, more needs to be done with less money to increase the effectiveness of development aid, and i believe that this can be achieved through public-private partnerships with the private sector. that is why i voted for the report on increasing the efficiency of development cooperation.
written. ‒ one of the key models of eu assistance to other countries is development cooperation. i support this report because it clearly highlights the importance of development aid and sustainable development finance, but also calls for an upgrade of the existing approach. this is based on fostering the efficiency and empowerment of local communities and national resilience to all the drivers of instability in the economic development pathway. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries, including on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries. cooperation with national, regional and local authorities is key to bringing programmes and funding closer to objectives such as poverty reduction, ensuring equal access to services, especially education, and building models of community self-reliance.
madam president, mrs. mogherini, this war has gone on too long. i can agree with you that europe and you personally have credibility in negotiations, but this war has gone on too long. like maybe it doesn't even want to end. i don't believe that part of the world will be at peace if there are great winners in this war. we need to make a deal as soon as possible because of the suffering of all the innocent people in this war. please do not agree and accept solutions, as the talk is that it could be, modeled on what happened in bosnia and herzegovina. not only because it would be a dysfunctional state, but because it would be the possibility of a constant new war conflict. and in the middle east, as we unfortunately know, it's a daily occurrence.
written. madam high representative, when it comes to syria - we have failed. we've spent so much time talking about the war and the humanitarian crisis in syria and making global agreements that haven't worked. for the genocide of christians that happened there and is still happening, the eu is responsible because it trades with those who finance islamist terrorists. thousands of people need our help in aleppo, 250,000 people have been killed since the war began, and 11 million syrians have been displaced. there are 8.4 million children in need of help in syria and neighboring countries. the syrians are helping each other while we're debating how to help them. persecuted muslims take refuge in christian churches and there receive help from christians, who are left in small numbers in syrian cities. we need to make an urgent agreement on the delivery of humanitarian aid to aleppo so that it reaches those who need it. and it's important to ensure peace, so that syrian children can grow up in their homes.
madam president, as the representative of our rifle club said, this situation cannot be viewed in isolation from the general situation in the middle east, and therefore our club has taken the position that we are not just talking about the west bank and violence, but about all the other issues, such as borders, migrants, security issues in the middle east. so we believe that the main and only solution is to continue the peace process, to create political conditions so that the peace process can continue, and we believe that this is the only way out. and the only way out is direct negotiations between israel and palestine, which means that it's a move on israel, but also on us as the eu, given the general situation in the world, the growing role of russia, the new circumstances in the us, and we expect to position ourselves accordingly. don't forget mr. netanyahu's remarks a few days ago warning his ministers not to triumph over new relations and the new situation surrounding trump's victory. so, there's a balanced approach here.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank to mr paşcu: i also consider the debate on your report as a so-called ‘article 36 debate’ since it deals with the implementation of csdp, and i also just realised for this debate for sure i should be sitting on the other side of the hemicycle; you will forgive me if, for practical reasons, i take the point from this position. let me thank you very much, mr paşcu, for an excellent report, and all the parliament for the work you are doing on security and defence. i had no doubt this would have been the case. this is one of five reports that have just been published, or are about to be discussed, on security and defence. i take it as a clear sign that the european parliament fully understands the importance of this moment for our work on security and defence. we truly stand at a crucial juncture in our work towards a european union of security and defence. but before i begin on content, let me say that i am particularly glad, and proud even, to discuss our common defence just a few hours after the presentation of our sustainable development package. now you will ask me what for – exactly, because it is not only our work on security and defence that goes forward on the implementation of the global strategy, but it is all the different strands of action that we foresee in the global strategy in an integrated manner that are moving forward on implementation. also because security in our region depends clearly on sustainable development and also vice-versa. so i would like to underline the fact that the debate we are having on this particular issue does not happen in a vacuum but, on the contrary, in full conjunction and in full coherence with the work that we do on other strands of work. on defence in particular, there is today a momentum for deep and decisive changes. as i was preparing for this debate today i was remembering that, in my hearing in athens in october 2014, before taking office, we discussed this issue at length and, in particular, i asked my team to print out the minutes of that hearing and i remembered, in particular, a question that arnaud danjean asked me at that time and i replied: je vais jouer mon rôle de chef de l'agence européenne de défense, je vais visiter les missions, je vais beaucoup travailler avec les ministres de la défense, parce que dans ce cadre, il est important, bien entendu, de travailler avec nos autres partenaires, notamment l'otan mais pas seulement. cependant, il y a un potentiel dans le traité de lisbonne qui n'est pas forcément exploité, et je vais voir dans les cinq prochaines années si les conditions politiques pour l'utiliser enfin sont réunies. i think we are actually there. i think that, after two years of my term of office, not necessarily for personal reasons, or in relation to personal skills, but because of political conditions. first of all, because our citizens see security as a top priority, and also because member states see the need to work seriously on security and defence, i think we are there: at the political juncture where advancing on security and defence is finally possible. as we all know, defence falls primarily within member states’ competences, and that is why, for each step we take, we receive input from member states. all proposals are discussed extensively with all 28 member states. let me stress this: we are still 28 member states, and all decisions we take in this field are unanimous decisions, including the one we took last week, and this process led to the council conclusions adopted last monday, based on the implementation plan that i presented to ministers as a concrete follow-up to the eu global strategy. these conclusions formulate the consensus among, as i said, 28 member states about our joint level of ambition, and open a whole new chapter for our security and defence. i am glad to see, too, that our views are almost identical in all fields. your report addresses all the critical issues we have been working on and its overall approach matches perfectly with our broader package of proposals concerning european security and defence. the report focuses on a more robust csdp, on our integrated approach to crises, on our cooperation with nato and other partners, and on the european defence industry. if you look at the three proposals we are presenting, they are perfectly in line with your recommendations. it is a package, the one we are working on now on security and defence of the european union – a package including three different sets of proposals, three different pillars. those are the implementation plan on security and defence, which i presented and which was adopted last week, and also the implementation of the eu-nato joint declaration that we signed in warsaw, and the commission defence action plan on our defence industry. so, just to give you a sense of how fast and concretely things are moving: on monday last week the foreign affairs and defence ministers together adopted the implementation plan on security and defence. the day after that, on tuesday last week, we met again with nato secretary general jens stoltenberg to progress cooperation with nato. we presented a joint set of 40 proposals to turn into concrete actions – the principles of the warsaw declaration we signed jointly in july. these two processes are obviously autonomous and independent but running side by side, because we both share the assessment that a stronger europe makes nato stronger. it is clear that in practice there is no contradiction between europe’s strategic autonomy, which we assert, and our commitment to our long-term partners. for nato members, nato will remain the cornerstone of collective defence. strategic autonomy means, first and foremost, the ability to be a reliable partner, to care about our own security at home and in the neighbourhood, to take our fair share of responsibility and to be a genuine security provider. this will also require stronger european defence capabilities, as the report rightly points out, and this need is also addressed by the implementation plan. i will get to that in a minute, but let me first mention the european defence action plan, which will focus on overcoming the current fragmentation of the market and increasing the competitiveness of the european defence industry. linked to that is the preparatory action for defence research to be launched next year. this can be a real game changer for our industry. the starting point is one of our most successful experiences, the horizon 2020 research programme, which, to date, covers civilian and dual-use technologies. a continent-wide joint research programme on defence would be a natural extension of horizon 2020. we have immense potential in terms of joint research programmes on defence, economies of scale and more predictable timeframes for investments. to develop the technologies of the future, it is very clear to all of us, i believe, that we need to start investing now, but a big part of our work can also deliver concrete results in a shorter timeframe, and, with the implementation plan on security and defence, we are moving fast in this field too. so, with last week’s decision – and i am sorry you had to change the report – member states agreed to raise the level of ambition of our security and defence policies. we have agreed that we need to protect our citizens through our external action. and let me clarify here that this is not about having an article-5-style approach: as i said, collective defence is not for the european union, we are not a military alliance, but we need to use our external action and instruments to protect our citizens, including at home. we need to strengthen our neighbours and partners to prevent new conflicts, and we need to respond to crises in an effective manner. so the implementation plan includes 13 concrete proposals to match this new level of ambition that we determined together and agreed upon, as well as a clear timeframe for action. it will now be up to the european council in december – when i will present this new level of ambition and the various options for putting it concretely on the table – to discuss and agree on the proposals. but let me mention a few of these proposals, as, again, they are perfectly in line with your report. i will mention a few of them, not all of them, but enough to give you a flavour of what we are working on. firstly, more efficient defence spending. most of the narrative turns around the need to increase our spending. however, when you look at the numbers, you see that europeans spend 50% of the united states’ budget on defence, yet in terms of output we achieve 15% compared to what we spend. so we have a budget gap, but we also have an output gap that we have to look at, and here i have proposed a coordinated annual review of defence spending to promote joint programmes among member states and economies of scale. secondly, better rapid response. we know well that reacting fast is, at times, the only way to react effectively. time is not neutral when one is reacting to crises. we already have first-class civilian experts and we need to be able to deploy them quickly, but this is also about our battle groups, which next year will have been in existence for 10 years. the plan proposes the removal of the political, technical and – let me stress – financial obstacles that have so far prevented the battle groups’ deployment, including through modularity. thirdly, the joint planning and conduct of non-combat missions. let me delete the word ‘non-combat’, as we do not have combat missions, we have executive and non-executive missions. anyway, the joint planning and conduct of our missions and operations. the european union is currently deploying 17 military and civilian operations, but to make them more effective we need to improve the coordination among them. the plan seeks to fill the gaps and to ensure that missions are planned and carried out in a coherent way. this is not about creating big, new operational, shape-style headquarter. that is not what we need today: what we need today is to streamline our current structures and make them work better. we already have headquarters running our missions and operations, so this is not about creating something new: it is about using our resources better in a more effective and efficient manner and, as i said, streamlining and making more operational the coordination of our various missions and operations. the last, though certainly not the least, of these few examples is that of new permanent-structure cooperation. here again we come to the issue of making full use of the treaties, as i said two years ago. a single system of permanent-structure cooperation is an option that is there in the treaties. i suggest that we look into it for those member states that are willing to undertake higher commitments on security and defence. a single pesco would be one of the options on which i will work with a view to proposing this to member states. for all these proposals i am presenting concrete measures, and i would like to stress that this is very concrete and, at the same time, ambitious yet pragmatic work we are doing. it is not strategic thinking – we did that exercise last year. now it is about turning this vision into action. we are not getting into a revision of the treaties, which would take years and i am personally not sure it would lead us very far at this moment. we are not working on the creation of an eu army, only to get stuck in a never-ending ideological debate – and, by the way, not even nato has a nato army. as all those who deal with defence issues know very well, member states have one set of forces, which they can use either nationally, in nato, in the european union, in the united nations or in other formations. we have already set up our vision, as i said, with the global strategy: we are now turning the vision into concrete, effective and immediate action, and i would like to stress that this immediate action is being taken together in unity. i see the political will from member states to do this. i see the will finally to move towards a european union of security and defence. our fathers and mothers and grandfathers and grandmothers tried this in the 1950s, and we know how the story ended: the lisbon treaty gave us instruments we did not use. probably, the priority of managing the economic and financial crisis has since distracted us from security issues. i believe that now is the time for us to get serious and work effectively in this direction, and i expect the european parliament to keep supporting and contributing to this process, as it has been doing, in a very useful manner.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, first of all, on behalf of the alde group, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation, and as a result of that cooperation, for the good report. the report highlights the significantly deteriorated security situation in europe, the fact that the european security and defence policy has fallen far short of public expectations, the importance of a thorough review of that policy in such circumstances and calls on the council to work towards the conversion of the european security and defence policy, as enshrined in the treaties establishing the european union, into a common defence. after such clear and serious wording, the report itself should be equally serious, concrete and very precise, following the implementation plan presented by the high representative to the council of the european union and the level of the report on the european union adopted here today by the european parliament, which talks about the need to establish a permanent command, a joint command, reform the concept of combat groups, reform the athenian mechanism for financing the european union's military operations and establish a start-up fund, also for financing these operations. these are therefore very clear objectives mentioned in the documents, including this report of ours, and that is why the alde group will not support amendments which weaken the european union's determination to strengthen the common security and defence policy, such as those which remove the provision on the need to create a joint command and the relativisation of the european defence research programme.
mr president, madam high representative, i congratulate my colleague rapporteur paşca on his excellent report, as it has largely moved away from the routine recording of weaknesses and unclear messages when it comes to the common security and defence policy. it is generally considered that this dimension of the european union's action has always been more preventive than defensive, always under construction and always incomplete, and the weakest element in the process of european integration. i also agree with the assessment that a large number of long-standing regional crises and new asymmetrical and hybrid threats today constitute a security context that poses very serious challenges to the very stability of the european union. we also need to consider recent political developments, like brexit or the results of the us presidential election. we must not allow our security to be dependent on political processes that do not contribute to the strengthening of european unity. in short, this is a time of challenge to the european union across much of its 15,000 kilometre external border, but also a time of serious rethinking within the european union of how to provide our citizens with a sense of security. the 2016 responses may only be joint european.
mr president, madam high commissioner, there are many countries, our member states, who fear that by building a common european defence and security policy they will lose their sovereignty. it's time to dispel these myths, so there is no european army - that's what we keep talking about and we are compatible with nato. that's what needs to be said and what everyone needs to know. so we're not building any european army, no fear of that. but there are fears about brexit, putin, the new situation in the united states. in these new security conditions we must make every effort to preserve our internal and external borders and i therefore advocate that article 45 of our treaty be interpreted in such a way as to become equivalent to article 5 of nato under the principle 'one for all, all for one'. it is the only way to put europe at the centre, to start thinking about ourselves and to make our own security policy.
mr president, high representative, colleagues, i would like to start by stressing that the security situation at the eu's borders and the asymmetrical threats within europe will put security and defence increasingly in the public's focus. this requires stronger action at the level of the eu institutions. the nature of modern threats and challenges means that security and defence increasingly interact with the economies of member states and will have a significant impact on the economy. the eu's common security policy therefore needs to be reviewed, adjusted and brought into line with the real situation and needs. the union's external relations are governed by the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is also necessary to adopt a strategy as soon as possible, to establish common political and administrative bodies and to establish permanent structural cooperation. it is very important to develop the capabilities of the military industry, developing as much dual use technology as possible. it is important to bear in mind that the eu member states' security and defence forces are very diverse in terms of equipment. and that's what makes the diversity of abilities. in some cases of equipment, equipment incompatibility can still be established. it is therefore necessary and important to work on smarter investment in the defence industry, and in particular, as i have already pointed out, dual use technology where, for example, the fleets protecting the eu's borders, including the croatian one in the adriatic sea, can be focused on equipment, for search and rescue operations, for medical transport operations, preventing sea pollution, and by modular upgrading in a very short time can become combat fleets. no single member state, including the strongest, can today respond to security threats alone, so we need to support the reporting, consultation and implementation of the common defence and security policy and action plan. the time ahead demands joint, well-planned and effective action, and, last but not least, timely action.
mr. president, the security situation in europe and the surrounding regions is becoming increasingly alarming, and it is clear to all that we must do more to protect our citizens and our interests. some see this as an opportunity to turn their backs on our transatlantic partners who have been standing shoulder to shoulder with us for decades to defend our common interests and values. there have also been major failures that have put the lives of our soldiers and civilians at risk unnecessarily and damaged our reputation in the world. failure is not something to run from, it's something to face. i'm aware that some of my colleagues in the election of donald trump see an opportunity for a much-desired break from america, but it's not the right path. the united states believed in a democratic europe when it was in ruins. let us also believe in our overseas partners and together with them build a better, more effective and more important nato for world peace.
madam president, colleague fotyga has brilliantly identified all the forms of propaganda warfare being waged against europe and the west in general. it is now easier than ever to spread false news or distorted information, which then travels around the world in a matter of seconds and attracts the attention of millions. i fear that there is no universal remedy that, in this age of information technology, can effectively counteract enemy propaganda. the most certain step in the right direction is certainly to increase the transparency of the european institutions and the governments of the member states, to open up partnerships between member states without a penny in the pocket, and to bring decisions that are important for the lives of citizens as close as possible to them so that they are more susceptible to their scrutiny. propaganda against europe and the west is falling on fertile ground as citizens are losing confidence in those who lead them and make important decisions for them. rebuilding that trust is the most effective way to fight propaganda.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like, also on behalf of high representative and vice-president mogherini, to thank this house again for its support. we are all in the process of developing our capacity to communicate in a more strategic and more focused way. to do this we need to work together across all institutions and in partnership with member states so that our messaging on what we are doing within the european union and externally strikes a deeper resonance.
written. the report by ms fotyga on isis and russian propaganda against the eu is counterproductive material. it's unacceptable to equate isis and russia on any subject. there is no doubt that both isis and russia use many propaganda channels to harm the eu, member states and individuals, but equating them in this situation is politically completely unacceptable. additionally, our relationship with isis and russia must be completely different. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the work of the european parliament and the council in the field of the fight against terrorism. they cruelly rule the so-called islamic state and foment terrorism in europe. on the other hand, russia is a permanent member of the un security council and has enormous influence and power that everyone respects. i have consistently argued that the current eu-russia relationship should be changed and built on partnership and cooperation in the mutual interest.
written. i support the introduction of the skills guarantee to help adults who have left the education system too early, for mostly objective reasons, to acquire basic qualifications and enter the labour market. given the freedom of implementation, i call on the member states to implement this programme swiftly and decisively. unfortunately, no additional funds are allocated to it from the european budget, but it is eligible for funding from existing programmes and esi funds, so only effective implementation is important for success. this programme will contribute to the strengthening of the whole society, as the dissemination of basic skills to the largest possible number of inhabitants is a step towards a society of social justice, knowledge and competitiveness.
mr. president, thank you very much, mr. commissioner. we all heard this morning that the basic or fundamental right of a citizen is the right to air, the right to water, the right to health. and no one is questioning that. so, breathing fresh air is what's considered guaranteed. but at the same time, we have data on 400,000 europeans who die from the effects of air quality. we've heard that in urban environments, there's a situation where even breathing air is equivalent to smoking ten cigarettes. either way, it's a frightening piece of information. i want to highlight here an example of a town in croatia called slavonski brod, which is on the border with another country, bosnia and herzegovina. we said earlier that pollution knows no boundaries. we highlight every year in the progress report for bosnia and herzegovina the example of the oil refinery in bosnia and herzegovina, in bosanski brod, which causes pollution. we have an example of that country being the third country in the world to die from air pollution. so, 222 citizens die for every 100,000 people. so there is no border, we in croatia suffer from pollution in bosnia and herzegovina. so it is time to bring this to the fore here in the european parliament. this instrument that we have brought here today is a good one, i realize that not all of the goals have been achieved, but it is ambitious. this parliament always has bigger goals than it can achieve, but in any case it is a good way to solve the problems by 2030.
mr president, for years, i would say decades, we have been fighting the battle in istria regarding the air pollution caused by the plomin thermal power plant in the labinština area and, of course, much wider. clean air is a human right today. that battle that was won was not easy. i believe we've won the battle against what we wanted to do, and that's the next one, another coal-fired power plant, of course. and that's the main problem. however, today we have a problem in another part of croatia. in eastern croatia, slavonski brod is one of those cities that suffer from enormous air pollution, and that's coming across the border from bosnia and herzegovina. i therefore call on this commission to think hard about how to include cross-border air pollution from countries that are not members of the european union but are candidate countries and want to join the european union. and we need to have a serious conversation with them about transboundary air pollution.
madam president, a year after paris, marrakech happened. i think it's a new phase and it's good that paris is in force. the indicative figure of 118 signatories is an unprecedented deadline. the results are in, now we're going to implement. so the most important thing is implementation. but i think marrakech was a strong political statement to implement everything from paris. so, the implementation of the paris agreement is very important, but we have to take into account the latest statements by president trump and the results of the us elections. i don't think he's going to do what he said in the campaign and what he's saying these days, but in any case, we're staying strong and thank you for that. to implement the agreement, to take responsibility, to protect the land and to pass it on to future generations. i think this is a big milestone, because we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, use more renewable energy, and look at energy efficiency.
written. ‒ i support the report on the 2018 calendar of parliament's sittings.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2018 parliamentary session schedule because i believe that the proposal is balanced and consistent with the current projections, and in order to establish as soon as possible a work plan for 2018.
written. ‒ the 2018 european parliamentary session agenda provides an indicative calendar for planning parliament's main activities and provides a framework for planning the activities of members during 2018. the new calendar for 2016 and 2017 is the increase in the number of 'green weeks' from the current 9 to 10 during which meetings of committees, political groups are not held at the european parliament's seats in brussels and strasbourg. that's the time scheduled for other activities of the representatives in their constituencies. the lack of communication with the electoral base and the possibility of presenting the european policies advocated by meps to their constituents is considered the biggest problem in public perception due to the 'distance' of meps in brussels from their citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud, corruption and organised crime, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the sessions schedule proposal for 2018. i consider that the timeframe of the envisaged timetable will adequately reflect all the obligations and tasks placed on the european parliament's institution under the legal framework of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted against because i strongly oppose the unnecessary waste of taxpayers' money on travel between the two seats of the european parliament, because in the same way, without any logical justification, about 180 million euros are spent annually, which could certainly be spent on countless useful and necessary projects. i also object to the persistent rejection of the amendments proposed by my group in parliament, which at least shorten the strasbourg plenary sessions as a sort of apparent compromise.
written. ‒ i support the proposed 2018 agenda of the european parliament. the new calendar reflects a change in the number of weeks spent in the field by members compared to 2017. in 2018, meps will be able to spend an extra week in activities organised outside parliament, which is an advantage for getting to know and working with the base, identifying existing problems and working to solve them.
written. ‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union with the treaties because i followed the alde group's position and because i do not support the proposal to suspend the provisional application of the agreement.
written. ‒ on 27 april 2009, the council authorised the commission to negotiate, on behalf of the european union and its member states, an economic integration agreement with canada. on 12 september 2011, the council subsequently adopted a commission recommendation amending the negotiating directives for the economic integration agreement with canada in order to empower the commission to negotiate the investment on behalf of the union. the negotiators concluded the ceta negotiations in august 2014 and completed the legal review on 29 february 2016, but parliament considers that there is legal uncertainty as to the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties. parliament therefore intends to seek the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i did not support the european parliament's motion for a resolution requesting the court's opinion on the compatibility of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union with the treaties. the canada-eu free trade agreement was signed on 30 october this year and negotiations were completed in august 2014. the eu and canada have agreed an ambitious agreement that will open up new opportunities for trade and investment for economic operators on both sides of the atlantic. the two parties underlined the importance of conducting economic activities within the framework of clear and transparent regulations adopted by public authorities and stressed that they considered the right to regulate in the public interest to be a fundamental principle of the agreement. the commission notes that the agreement between the parties to the agreement does not contain any provision for the use of water for commercial purposes. in the last two years, there has been ample time to study and analyse this agreement. if member states consider it necessary, in accordance with the eu's basic treaties, they have the right to review certain parts of the agreement before the court of justice of the european union and i see no reason why i should support this initiative.
‒ parliament seeks the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) with the treaties of the european union. on 27 april 2009, the council authorised the commission to negotiate, on behalf of the european union and its member states, an economic integration agreement with canada and on 12 september 2011 it adopted a commission recommendation authorising the commission to negotiate, on behalf of the union, an investment agreement. the negotiators concluded the ceta negotiations in august 2014 and completed the legal review on 29 february 2016. the text of the agreement submitted contains a chapter on investment (chapter 8) which includes, inter alia, a section on investment protection (section d) and a section on investor-state dispute settlement (section f). i believe that parliament should take political responsibility for deciding on this agreement and use its own legal resources for any possible ambiguities.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ i reject this motion for a resolution on the opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union with the treaties on the european union because i do not believe there is legal uncertainty, but i support ceta in general because if we say no to ceta, we will say no to free trade, which will also have a negative impact on trade agreements with other countries. ceta is the eu's first comprehensive economic agreement with a highly industrialized country. by encouraging new economic activities and creating new markets by breaking down existing barriers, we show that we are serious about free trade. this trade agreement would create many jobs and opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the wheels of the economy.
written. ‒ motion for a resolution opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the compatibility of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union with the treaties not supported. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the ceta agreement is not compatible with the treaties of the european union, and that the court of justice of the european union has not yet delivered an opinion on the ceta agreement. the position of the court of justice of the eu is binding and the implications of a negative response may prevent the entry into force of the ceta agreement. in my belief in the expertise of the legal service of parliament's legal committee, i consider that any request for a reply would only slow down the process of adopting the ceta agreement and is not necessary as such.
written. ‒ this resolution was added to the plenary agenda at the last minute by the greens, gue, efdd, enf and some members of the s&d group. the resolution asks the european court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of the ceta agreement with the treaties on the european union. if the resolution is adopted, it will mean that parliament will automatically have to stop the consent procedure and await the judgment of the court. without parliament's consent, the ceta agreement cannot be applied provisionally. i oppose this resolution because it is not really intended to test the legal adequacy of the agreement, because the legal side of the agreement is not contested in one segment - the legal service of the european parliament has already issued an opinion that the ceta agreement is compatible with the treaties. the real objective is to postpone an agreement that has already been unanimously approved in the 28 individual member states of the union. that's why i'm voting against it.
written. ‒ i do not support this motion for a resolution on the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the compatibility of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union with the treaties on the european union. the european union has its own values, norms and law, which derive from its founding acts and subsequent legal instruments. it is therefore important that all trade and economic agreements be in line with these values, since there is no form of economic or other cooperation that could be more important than respect for the fundamental principles of the union. the promotion of new economic activities and the creation of new markets by breaking down existing barriers must not be accompanied by a degradation of consumer protection, product quality and any other legal framework regulating the market. cooperation must be transparent, for the benefit of the citizens of the european union and canada. i consider that there is no need to carry out any additional checks on the content of the contract as all legal uncertainties were removed before the signature and both signatories signed in good faith to reach an agreement.
in writing. ‒ i support this this deal because it will cut the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030, forcing governments across europe to act and ensuring, for the first time, that all polluting sectors, including agriculture, take responsibility for what they emit. the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, because the deterioration of human health and environmental pollution are problems that know no borders, directly affect all citizens of the union and require urgent action. air pollution has a direct and powerful impact on premature death, rising health costs, ground-level vegetation diversity, plant growth, and a host of other problems. the targets set for reducing air pollution are still not met and concrete measures are needed to achieve long-term and consistent union targets. i support new emission limits for 2020 and 2030, and the development of national air pollution control programmes. furthermore, i believe that smarter and more efficient legislation is needed to reduce the administrative burden on member states and businesses, and to improve the exchange of information at all levels. in this context, it is necessary that member states are clearly informed of the state of play of their action and that they initiate concrete corrective actions in the event of non-compliance with the commitments.
written. ‒ this proposal for a directive should contribute effectively to the achievement of air quality objectives set out in union legislation and to the mitigation of the effects of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived climate pollutants, improving synergies with union climate and energy policies and ensuring that there is no overlap between existing legislation, while improving air quality worldwide. however, the eu is still far from achieving its long-term objective of adhering to the recommended pollution limits under the 2005 air quality guidelines. in 2013, the commission published the long-awaited clean air package, which sets out measures to ensure that existing targets are met in the short term and sets new air quality targets for the period up to 2030. this report emphasises the fact that better regulation and environmental protection are not mutually exclusive and that this directive should therefore be aligned with the other pillars of eu policy. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and to take into account the impact of the amendments proposed by the commission.
written. ‒ the programmes required by the directive must take into account the cost-effectiveness of emission reduction measures, the priorities of concrete policy measures aimed at reducing the health risks to vulnerable groups of people, quantify additional reductions in greenhouse gas emissions to meet the 2030 world health organisation targets, support the shift of investment towards clean and efficient technologies and sustainable production with the help of fiscal incentives. the commission shall assess progress in reducing air pollutants according to the world health organisation's clean air scale by 2025 at the latest. the directive contributes to the union's long-term objective of achieving a level of air quality that does not lead to significant adverse effects on human health and the environment, to the achievement of the union's biodiversity and ecosystem objectives by reducing the levels and deposition of certain atmospheric pollutants, to the achievement of the air quality objectives of union legislative acts, to the mitigation of the impacts of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived climate pollutants and to improving synergies with the union's climate and energy policies. in the light of the above, i supported the amendments adopted by the european parliament on 28 october 2015 on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec following reconsideration by the standing committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
written. ‒ the european union has made significant progress in the last 20 years in the area of anthropogenic emissions and air quality thanks to ambitious policies. however, environmental and human health risks remain. this directive is an important step in the fight against air pollution. the directive should contribute to the achievement of air quality objectives set out in union legislation and to the mitigation of the effects of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived climate pollutants while improving air quality at global level and improving synergies with union climate and energy policies. poor air quality causes over 400,000 premature deaths a year and its economic costs are estimated at between 300 and 900 billion euros each year. this agreement aims to halve the number of premature deaths by 2030. 90% of europe's citizens live in cities and are exposed to air pollution levels that are harmful to human health. many vulnerable socioeconomic groups are particularly exposed. measures to tackle dangerous pollutants are urgently needed in all sectors. eu governments must take action to ensure that economic sectors, including agriculture, act responsibly on the substances they release into the atmosphere. i call on member states to act as soon as possible and to fully implement the directive and take further steps in our joint fight against air pollution.
written. ‒ air pollution is a local, pan-european and global problem because air pollutants emitted in one country can easily reach other countries, causing or contributing to poor air quality. therefore, stronger efforts to address this problem are urgently needed. the european union is working at many levels to reduce exposure to this problem: through legislation, cooperation with the sectors responsible for pollution, national and regional authorities, non-governmental organisations and research. the revised thematic strategy on air pollution sets new strategic targets for the period up to 2030 to achieve the union's objectives, including measures to reduce emissions of nitrogen dioxide, nitrous oxide, ammonia, fine particulate matter and the number of cases and premature deaths from air pollution-related diseases. however, aviation emissions from take-off and landing and marine emissions are still not taken into account. it is necessary to amend directive 2003/35/ec of the european parliament and of the council in order to ensure consistency with the 1998 aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters. the enhanced efforts of all member states are a key enabler of this process in reducing emissions of climate pollutants and improving air quality globally.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec because it correctly identifies the shortcomings of the existing regulations, in particular as regards the cost-effectiveness of emission reduction measures and the priorities of concrete policy measures aimed at reducing the health risks of vulnerable groups. a shift is needed towards the use and design of new technologies that are clean and efficient. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, in order to supplement this regulation by establishing a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems. air pollutants affect not only humans, but also the environment and the fauna and flora action is needed to offset possible consequences for the ecosystem as a whole.
written. ‒ i have expressed my support for the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. the report offers a better solution using modern technologies that will increase the efficiency of the control of emissions of air pollutants. the report defined the shortcomings of the existing regulations in a substantive way, with an emphasis on the cost-effectiveness of measures to reduce pollutant emissions and on the establishment of adequate policy measures that will reduce health risks. taking into account that pollutants affect the entire ecosystem, additional financial resources from the budget of the european union should be mobilised to achieve adequate air quality. the report insists that the environmental policy of the european union be fully aligned with positive legislative solutions. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a legislative proposal on the subject.
written. ‒ while the eu's policies are largely focused on preserving and protecting the environment, it can be seen that much of the focus is on tackling climate change, while far less attention is paid to air quality. considering that poor air quality contributes to premature mortality, disease, loss of productivity, loss of crop yields, and damage to buildings, it is clear that emissions of air pollutants are a health and environmental problem. i support the recognition in the report of the need to reduce the negative impacts and risks of air pollution on the environment and human health, but i believe that the introduction of new, higher limits will not achieve much as individual member states cannot achieve the targets set. i believe that it is first and foremost necessary for each member state to set targets that it will be able to actually meet, and i have accordingly abstained.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. the anthropogenic emissions of gases and particulates are mostly caused by incomplete combustion of fuels used for heating, energy production, transport or processes in industrial chemical plants, and by abrasion produced by motor vehicles. the proposed directive aims to establish new national emission limits for the most significant air pollutants. member states shall ensure continuous monitoring of changes and reductions achieved in the total amount of pollutants. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the union's programmes in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. some of the objectives set by the regulation are challenging for member states and, under certain conditions, the european union must provide financial assistance to reform efforts, particularly in the area of transport. clean air must remain a public good.
written. ‒ i support this question to the commission. i think it's important that banks be an efficient component of our economy, not a risk element. banks must be able to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid a repeat of the massive bailouts we saw during the crisis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the finalisation of basel iii because in order to preserve financial stability, secure lending to the real economy and support economic growth, we need a banking system that is well capitalised and resilient. i believe that banks have an important role to play in financing the european economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and that differences between jurisdictions and banking models need to be reduced in order to promote a level playing field worldwide. in this context, it is important that the principle of proportionality and the risk-based approach be established at union level, as well as at international level, and that examples of good practice be exchanged between regulators. i also believe that european and national banking supervisors have a relevant role to play in ensuring supervisory coherence in the european union and therefore support this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ the draft resolution stresses that a resilient and well-capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for preserving financial stability, ensuring adequate lending to the real economy and supporting economic growth. the european union has implemented internationally agreed standards under the capital requirements regulation (crr) and the capital requirements directive (crd iv), although it has adapted them to the actual funding needs of the eu and allowed a certain degree of flexibility. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets, in particular on the financial markets in the union, in order to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets in the union. european and national banking supervisors have a key role in ensuring supervisory consistency in the eu, while respecting the principle of proportionality and the appropriateness of the rules for different banking models. the resolution stresses the importance of reliable and comparable information on the state of the institutions under supervision in order to be able to carry out this work efficiently and reliably. i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the finalisation of basel iii, which aims to create a well-capitalised and resilient banking system. the commission considers that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. the last economic crisis has shown the importance of the role of credit rating agencies in the overall market confidence in a country or a company. for these reasons, it is essential to establish global standards and principles to regulate the creditworthiness of banks and to harmonise practices. great efforts have been made to increase the ease and convergence of doing business and i hope that in the future the associated risks will be reduced and that overall business and economic movements will be more predictable.
written. ‒ banks must be an efficient part of our economy, not a risk element. they play a key role in financing the european economy and are likely to remain the main source of financing for households and businesses, in particular smes. a resilient and well-capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for maintaining financial stability and supporting economic growth. the audit currently being carried out by the bcbs must encourage and promote a balanced chance of success, a level playing field for all on a global scale. it must reduce, not further emphasise, differences in jurisdictions and banking models and avoid unnecessarily penalizing the eu banking model. the key is an approach based on a proper risk assessment, with the same rules applying to the same risk. a sound framework for financial stability and growth should be comprehensive and balanced to encompass dynamic supervisory practices, rather than focusing only on static regulation that mainly addresses quantitative aspects. i want to stress the need for greater transparency and accountability to increase the legitimacy of the bcbs board and its takeover. banks need to be well capitalised to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid a repeat of the massive bailouts of banks that we saw during the crisis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the finalization of basel iii. a resilient and well-capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for preserving financial stability and ensuring adequate lending to the economy. the existence of global standards and principles for the prudential regulation of banks is particularly important in times of crisis. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the capital injections were made in a manner that would have allowed the bank to continue to operate at a loss. i welcome the initiative proposed in this report to strengthen the role of the european parliament in the overall process and the call for dialogue and exchange of best practice at european and international level.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution tabled following oral question b8-001810/2016 pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on the finalisation of basel iii (2016/2959 ((rsp)). the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not reflected in the capital needs of the banking sector, but rather in the capital needs of the banking sector. the resolution also stresses that eu legislation has always sought to reflect this fact and should continue to do so. it recognises, however, the importance of diversifying the sources of financing for the european economy and welcomes the current work in the framework of the capital markets union in this regard. the resolution also gives importance to the coherence of supervision in the eu by european and national banking supervisors, while respecting the principle of proportionality and the appropriateness of the rules for different banking models.
written. ‒ this oral question from the econ committee relates to the conclusion of basel iii. the basel committee on banking supervision (bcbs) proposes to improve the credit rating framework for banks dealing with credit risk, which would mark the beginning of basel iv. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not reflected in the capital needs of the bank, but rather in the capital needs of the bank. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ i support this report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the council's annual report on the common foreign and security policy to the european parliament) (2016/2067(ini)), given the complex european security environment which has become significantly more dangerous and less predictable and the need for stronger connectivity and coordinated action against the threats and dangers faced by member states. the report points to a significant deterioration in the security situation in europe and to the fact that the common european defence and security policy falls far short of the needs and expectations of the public. the objectives of the common security and defence policy as set out in the treaty establishing the eu need to be pursued consistently. it is necessary to strengthen the defence capability and the strategic and technological autonomy of the union in this regard. i also support the establishment of a permanent eu headquarters for civilian and military missions and operations under the jcpoa from which an integrated operational headquarters would provide support.
written. ‒ the european security environment is significantly fragile, with threats of a conventional and hybrid nature, coming from the south and the east, and affecting member states differently. the eu must adapt to these security challenges, in particular by making more effective use of existing csdp instruments in line with other external and internal instruments and by enhancing cooperation between member states, in particular in the area of counter-terrorism. the report notes the importance of more actively combating radicalisation and terrorist propaganda and promoting judicial cooperation between criminal justice systems, including eurojust. in the fight against radicalisation and terrorism, close cooperation between the union institutions and the member states, as well as with all other world organisations, is important, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe it has identified the strengths and weaknesses of the european union's action in the field of security and defence. the fact is that the european union is a large community, with a population of almost 510 million, and that its neighbourhood and external borders are a volatile environment that threatens the stability of the entire continent. it is important that the european union establishes coordinated action in the field of security services, defence capabilities, information exchange and practical action on the ground for the purpose of self-defence and the protection of allies outside the european union. this is the task of national states and national security and intelligence forces, but faced with many non-traditional security challenges, we must become aware that coordination and joint action are the only and exclusive way to achieve the goal, which is peace and an environment that allows prosperity and development for all. the construction of a future european security institutional and resource community must follow a path where member states agree on all key points, challenges, strengths, areas of cooperation and common interest. the strengthening of institutional links is a prerequisite for the consistent implementation of the common foreign and security policy and the common defence and security policy of the european union.
written. ‒ no country can face the current security challenges alone. our security environment has been compromised and it's become more fluid and less predictable. threats are conventional and hybrid in nature, caused by state and non-state actors, coming from the south and the east. the lack of coherence is one of the weaknesses of union action. the eu should be prepared to face structural changes in the international security environment - challenges such as state breakdown and cyberattacks, as well as the security implications of climate change. it is essential for the eu to adapt to these security challenges, in particular through a more efficient use of existing instruments of the cfsp. it is necessary to revise the cfsp in order to enable the eu and the member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union, to the resolution of international crises and to the affirmation of the strategic autonomy of the eu. the sop must be even faster and more effective. we europeans must be prepared to respond immediately to crises, in full respect of the un charter, international treaties and human rights. the eu should enhance dialogue and cooperation with third countries in the region and with regional and sub-regional organisations. we have become aware of the fact that we must collectively and responsibly take on a greater role in the world. our partners expect the eu to play an important role, especially in ensuring global security. better cooperation and harmonisation between member states is imperative.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ in a time of persistent instability surrounding the european union, a special focus has been placed on the implementation and coherent conduct of the european security and defence policy. i support this report because it successfully points to a key deficiency among member states, namely the low level of readiness, cooperation and compatibility of military resources. it is essential that member states work on coordinating security and defence actions to ensure greater stability and predictability of the system. however, in the implementation of security and defence policy, it is important to ensure cooperation with other countries in europe's close neighbourhood, a cooperation that will create a stable partnership based on trust and mutual assistance. in the light of the recent us presidential elections, the issue of european defence and security is becoming increasingly important due to the announcement that the united states will refrain from an active role in nato. the european union must be able to defend itself against security challenges.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report of the council on the common foreign and security policy to the european parliament). i believe it is necessary to ensure the implementation of the common security and defence policy as soon as possible. it is also necessary to adopt a strategy, to establish common political and administrative bodies and to establish permanent structured cooperation. it's very important to develop the capabilities of the military industry, developing as much dual-use technology as possible. the eu has a wide range of security and defence equipment. so they're very diverse in their abilities. in some cases of equipment, equipment incompatibility can still be established. so it's particularly important to work on smarter investment in the defence industry, and especially as i've already pointed out the dual-use technology where, for example, the fleets that protect the borders of the european union, including croatia in the adriatic sea, can be focused on equipping for search and rescue operations, for medical transport operations, preventing sea pollution, and with modular upgrades in a very short time can become combat fleets.
written. ‒ i voted against because i firmly believe that competence over defence policy must always be and remain the competence of national states as the basis of national sovereignty. in this sense, i support the nato organisation as the basis for defence and security cooperation between the european union and the transatlantic allies. i therefore strongly oppose the proposals that are increasingly being made at eu level, which call for the creation of a european union army and, in connection with this, expensive military structures. in my view, that proposal, apart from the financial loss, could only result in an irreparable loss of trust by our current nato allies and thereby significantly weaken our ties with our international defence partners. the report suggests that the european union must address internal security challenges in the member states, including overthrow, which is not covered by nato action. while the compromises contain many calls for cooperation with nato, they also contain many calls for the creation of an autonomous security and defence policy and a collective defence principle which grossly infringes the principle of national sovereignty.
written. ‒ i support the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy based on the council's annual report and the common foreign and security policy. defence and security have become very important on the agenda not only of the european and national institutions, but also of a whole range of other important actors such as civil society, the media, expert groups and ultimately citizens. the volatile european environment requires a clear and consistent response to all threats and the european union must ensure the consistent implementation of the common security and defence policy. the problem with the european union's security architecture is that it relied too much on nato and did little to standardize military procedures, equipment compatibility and the development of a military industry. in the new geopolitical circumstances, enhanced cooperation and coordination in the field of security and defence is becoming a priority.
written. ‒ i support this report on eu strategic communication to counter propaganda against it by third parties. propaganda is aimed at the eu and its citizens, and that is a fact, so the need for a strategic communication response is obvious. i also think that mixing state (russia) and non-state (isis) actors is not an adequate approach for such a text.
written. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu's strategic communication to counter third party propaganda (2016/2030(ini) as it deals with russia and isil/daesh simultaneously and i believe that the eu's relationship with one state or terrorist organisation cannot be considered in the same way and does not represent the same level of problem that the eu should address in the same way in the same document. furthermore, the combination of different issues and problems as discussed in this report could lead to different interpretations of the relationship itself with those third parties and could diminish the eu parliament's reputation as a significant and internationally recognised institution.
written. ‒ the eu is committed to conducting its action on the international stage in accordance with principles such as democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and freedom of the media, access to information, freedom of expression and media pluralism, etc. the report highlights the different forms and means of anti-eu hostile propaganda, tailored to the profiles of member states, to distort the truth, sow doubt, divide member states and cause division between the european union and its north american partners. the tools used for propaganda purposes are to create fear and insecurity among eu citizens and to present hostile state and non-state actors as stronger and more successful than they actually are. the report stresses that strategic communication and information warfare are both an external and an internal problem for the eu and expresses concern that hostile propaganda serves many information disseminators within the eu. he was also involved in the recruitment of russian intelligence officers and other specialised personnel. they also often provide financial support to political extremists and large-scale disinformation campaigns in the mass media. the report encourages member state governments to be cautious about russian intelligence operations in europe and to share capacity and counter such operations, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ i think it is important to raise awareness at institutional level of the importance of combating propaganda wars directed against the european union and to move beyond what we all know and are aware of to a clear position of the european union that provides appropriate measures and mechanisms to prevent these negative phenomena. i would particularly urge the european parliament and the commission to pay greater attention to developments in the union's immediate neighbourhood, in particular to developments in serbia, montenegro and bosnia and herzegovina. in these countries, there is a strong pro-russian propaganda campaign that has escalated in several cases - in parliamentary elections in montenegro, an illegal referendum held in republika srpska and recent military exercises of the russian, serbian and belarusian armies near the croatian border. there are signs of islamist radicalisation in bosnia and herzegovina and it is necessary to work on countering this worrying trend. the european union should continue to give strong support to the european perspective of these countries and ensure media independence, the verifiability of information and the preservation of true european values.
written. ‒ the eu, its member states and citizens are under systematic and growing pressure to respond to disinformation and propaganda campaigns. it seeks to challenge and undermine the european political narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law in the eyes of both eu citizens and neighbouring countries. hostile propaganda against the eu takes many forms, often tailored to the profiles of the member states. it seeks to create doubt and divide member states and paralyse decision-making processes. the appeal to fear and insecurity in eu citizens is one of the most important tools used, as is the presentation of hostile state and non-state actors as stronger and more successful than they actually are. the anti-european propaganda strategy covers traditional media, social networks, school curricula and influence on political parties in the european union and beyond. i call on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the eu against hate speech systematically promoted by intolerant, radical preachers in their rhetoric. the competent institutions must closely monitor the sources of funding for anti-european propaganda.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the european union has recently been the constant target of a whole series of negative campaigns directed by destabilising factors in the wider and closer european neighbourhood. in view of the already damaged image of the european union and european values due to frequent escalations also on european territory, it is essential that the union be able to take an active approach to combating propaganda against it by third parties. the commission should be able to verify that the information provided by the member states is accurate and reliable, and that the information provided by the member states is not misleading or misleading. the promotion of free journalism, media freedoms and insistence on the highest professional rules and standards must be integrated into such a strategy. i therefore support this report because it is the first step in taking action against those who are waging propaganda and information warfare against the european union.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on strategic communication of the european union to combat propaganda against it by third parties. it emphasises that various means, often tailored to the profiles of member states, are used for anti-eu propaganda purposes in order to distort the truth, create doubt, divide member states, and cause strategic divisions between the european union and its north american partners. such propaganda has the potential to paralyse decision-making processes, discredit the eu institutions and the transatlantic partnership in the eyes of the citizens of the eu and its neighbouring countries, and challenge and undermine the european political narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law.
written. ‒ hostile propaganda against the eu takes many forms and uses many means to distort the truth, create doubt, divide member states, discredit the eu institutions and the transatlantic partnerships. russia is aggressively using a wide range of means and instruments to challenge western values, divide europe, win the support of its domestic public and create the image of the eu's eastern neighbourhood as a disintegrating state. on the other hand, islamist terrorist organisations, in particular isil/da'esh and al-qaeda, are conducting active information campaigns to undermine european values and increase the level of hatred towards them. i am particularly concerned by the fact that isil/da'esh extensively uses social media tools to promote its propaganda and recruitment objectives, especially among young people, who need special protection from this dangerous radicalisation. nato, the eu, member states and non-governmental and civil society organisations should establish the best possible coordination and exchange of information and cooperate closely for the benefit of all eu citizens. the proposed action requires cooperation and coordination between all relevant actors at eu and national level, and only a comprehensive approach can lead to success in the effort, which is why i supported this report and voted in favour.
written. ‒ i support the report on the european union's strategic communication to combat propaganda against it by third parties, as it calls for the union to take active action to preserve the reputation, credibility and truth of the various events in which the european union is involved. the use of propaganda has become popular in recent years, especially on the battlefields of ukraine, syria, and iraq. the beneficiaries of this approach base their actions on attempts to create a distorted image of european values and the union's external activities. the fight against propaganda must be based on a consistent insistence on ensuring media freedoms, but also responsible journalistic reporting and work based on professional standards. the establishment of a body to work on this issue is a necessary step in the fight against the negative campaign carried out by third parties.
written. ‒ i support this report, which considers that access to high quality services and reasonable accommodation measures for sign language should be strengthened to ensure equal treatment and participation of persons with disabilities in society.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters because in all member states there is a shortage of qualified and professional sign language interpreters and as full citizens, all persons with disabilities, especially women and children, including deaf and hard of hearing persons, persons using sign language and those not using it, have equal rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independence, autonomy and full participation in society. what is needed first is to give official recognition to national and regional sign languages in the member states and within the eu institutions, to recognise the profession and to provide formal training (faculty or similar).
written. ‒ sign language users and non-sign language users have equal rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. the eu's multilingualism policy promotes the learning of foreign languages and one of its aims is for every european to speak two languages in addition to his or her mother tongue. for this reason, the teaching and promotion of national and regional sign languages could contribute to this objective. deaf, deafblind and deafblind citizens must have access to the same information and communication as other persons in the form of sign language interpretation, speech-to-text or alternative forms of communication, including interpreters. i believe that the eu institutions must be an example of best practice when it comes to ensuring adaptability and accessibility for their staff, elected officials and trainees, and this includes sign language interpretation. the resolution proposal encourages the institutions to officially grant sign language interpreters the same status as interpreters in relation to the translation services they provide to the institutions, including access to technological support, preparatory materials and documents, and i therefore supported it.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that we must continuously work towards eradicating all forms of discrimination against people with disabilities. here we often forget about people who we might at first glance think have no disability, and so often the wrong assumption is made that they should not be given equal access to information, work or simply participate in social activities. the declaration of human rights commits us, as citizens of europe and as members of the european parliament, to continuously work for the well-being of our citizens and for the betterment of the world. by hiring a professional sign language interpreter, we enable deaf and hard of hearing people to participate on an equal footing with everyone else. this is particularly important for the european institutions, which represent all the citizens of europe. it is really important to represent all citizens and to give our fellow citizens with disabilities equal access to our institutions and the same experience as everyone else. because of the way that society works today, deaf people and people with hearing impairments are put in an inferior position both in terms of their own representation and in terms of functioning in life, so we should in all public institutions, and especially the legal type, provide interpreters and really live what we speak, live equality and spend it every day.
written. ‒ there are approximately one million deaf sign language users in the eu, and an additional 51 million deaf citizens. accessibility is a prerequisite for persons with disabilities to lead independent lives and participate in society on an equal basis and is not limited to physical accessibility of the environment but also refers to accessibility of information and communication, including in the form of the provision of sign language content. the eu institutions must set an example of best practice in ensuring reasonable accommodation and accessibility for their staff, elected officials and trainees, including sign language translation. however, there is a shortage of qualified and professional sign language interpreters in all member states. the need for these can only be met by official recognition of national and regional sign or sign languages in the member states and within the eu institutions, and by formal training and official recognition of the profession. also, balanced and comprehensive information on sign language and deafness must be offered so that parents can make informed decisions in the best interests of their children. early intervention programs are critical to the development of life skills in children. deaf, deafblind and deaf-mutes pupils and their parents must be enabled to learn the national or regional sign language of their environment through pre-school care and in schools.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i express my support for this report because it offers a systematic approach to tackling the problem of discrimination faced by people with disabilities. there are different forms of disability, as well as different degrees, and equal access to information, employment and participation in social events and activities should be provided. sustained efforts are needed to create a society that provides equal opportunities for all and is oriented towards the well-being of all, especially those with disabilities. the use of professional sign language interpreters enables deaf and hearing-impaired persons to integrate more easily and more fully into the community. this is particularly evident when one observes the work of various institutions. an equal society must be established and all people must have an equal chance to succeed in life, regardless of their own physical disabilities or difficulties.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters. i believe that all people with disabilities have equal rights and are entitled to full participation in society. i fully support all the institutions of the european union in the fight against discrimination on the grounds of disability and believe that deaf, blind and deaf citizens of the union must be given access to direct communication with members of the european parliament as well as with administrators in the institutions of the european union. the eu institutions must set an example of best practice in ensuring reasonable accommodation and accessibility for their staff, elected officials and trainees, including sign language translation.
written. ‒ since 2010, when it ratified the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the european union has had a legal obligation to implement the provisions contained in the convention. but six years after ratification, only minor improvements are visible. in order to fully enable accessibility and equality for citizens with disabilities, the institutions of the european union should set the best example for member states and ensure equal access to information and communication for persons with disabilities. that is why i co-signed a resolution by my fellow meps from the group of european conservatives and reformists, which provides for approaches to improve the situation of people with disabilities, namely deaf, deafblind and deafblind citizens. first of all, within the eu institutions and the member states, there is a need for official recognition of national and regional sign language, official education and recognition of sign language as a professional and vocational service requiring adequate remuneration, i.e. giving sign language interpreters the same status as professional interpreters. in addition, i believe that equal access to employment, education and training for young deaf people is necessary to reduce their unemployment.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters. in ensuring equal access for persons with disabilities to various services and content, it is important to ensure integration mechanisms for persons with hearing impairments and deaf persons. the ability to communicate and communicate is a key prerequisite for successful inclusion in the community, the workplace, the study and access to services and content. the member states' action in this area is diverse, with uneven and inconsistent practices. with this motion for a resolution, the european union is aware of this problem and calls for it to be tackled as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i support this objection. the commission should take into account all necessary data confirming safety of a given substance before issuing the authorisations. the approval period should be proportionate to the possible risks inherent in the use of such substances. the precautionary principle should be the guiding principle in the authorisation process of plant protection products.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance benzazone in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011, as it calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision. it is of particular importance that the precautionary principle be applied in cases where there is a risk to human health or the environment. in the present case, the various circumstances indicate that caution should be exercised in order not to approve an active substance which may endanger public health or the environment and i therefore support this objection.
written. ‒ the active substance bentazone acts as a selective herbicide applied after nipping against broadleaf weeds in various crops and is often used in agriculture. according to the united kingdom environment agency, the active substance benthazone is the most commonly found pesticide in the uk groundwater and is also present in surface water. the situation is similar throughout europe. based on the assessment of the representative uses of the active substance benthazone, it cannot be concluded that it can be expected that a plant protection product containing the active substance benthazone will not have any adverse effects on human or animal health or on groundwater or any unacceptable effect on the environment, and i therefore support this resolution.
written. ‒ i did not support the european parliament's objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure concerning the renewal of the approval of the active substance bentazone. the side effects of the active substance bentazone have not yet been sufficiently investigated and i therefore supported the amendments of the european club of organists seeking an extension of the approval for a shorter period than that proposed, subject to the necessary studies. well, benthazone is the active ingredient in a number of different herbicides used in agriculture to protect crops like corn, peas, beans... as regards toxicity to target species and quality, the active substance is recognised as a potential mutagen but not a carcinogen and has no negative effect on pollinators such as bees. in some member states, due to intensive use, increased concentrations in watercourses have been recorded after application and landfilling, but with proper and professional application, the negative effects can be mitigated. in croatia, this active substance is used on 37000 hectares of agricultural land and croatian farmers consider that at this moment there are no adequate substitutes that would replace bentazone equally well. as the possibility of sustainable conventional farming without the use of herbicides is not in sight in the near future, and for all the other reasons mentioned here, i did not support this objection.
written. ‒ the active substance bentazone acts as a selective herbicide used in agriculture and, due to its inherent properties, there is a high possibility of direct leaching into groundwater as well as the presence in surface waters, as confirmed by the environment agency. the draft implementing regulation lays down certain conditions and limitations, in particular the requirement to provide additional confirmatory information, taking into account current scientific and technical knowledge. after considering the comments received on the report, it was concluded that the applicant should be requested to provide further information. the consumer risk assessment was not finalised because the proposed residue definitions for plant risk assessment and animal use were considered provisional due to insufficient data. i therefore take the view that the draft commission implementing regulation exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 and consider that the assessment of representative uses of benzazone is not sufficient to conclude that the plant protection product containing that substance will not have any adverse effects on human or animal health or groundwater, or any unacceptable effects on the environment. i call on the commission to respect the precautionary principle laid down in article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to make it a priority to request and assess all relevant missing information before taking an authorisation decision.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the widespread use of bentazone in agriculture must be conditional on positive results of the relevant studies which must establish all the side effects of the use of this substance in the production of agricultural products. the health and cleanliness of the environment, especially that in which food is produced, must be the european union's absolute priorities. the establishment of stricter criteria and procedures for the authorisation of pesticide use in agriculture is a prerequisite for safe and healthy production of agricultural products and the protection of groundwater. i'm not supporting the resolution because both key amendments were rejected.
written. ‒ i do not support the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance benzazone in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011. the active substance bentazone acts as a selective herbicide used against weeds in various crops and has the potential to pollute groundwater. i believe that the european commission made a mistake in allowing this substance to be placed on the market before the complete safety data was available.
written. ‒ the approval of the active substance benzazone, which is widely used in agriculture, expires on 30 june 2017. although the commission has proposed to renew the approval of that active substance, i believe that the protection of human health as well as the protection of the environment should be a priority for the institutions of the european union. the commission should obtain all necessary information on the effects on humans, animals, plants and the environment of that substance before deciding to authorise the renewal. the risk assessment for consumers and the assessment of groundwater exposure have not been completed. i consider that the data received by the commission on bentazone do not contain sufficient confirmatory information that this substance will not have any harmful effects on human health, animal health or groundwater, and therefore i supported the report objecting to its extension.
written. ‒ i do not support this objection to review the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance bentazone. bentazone is a selective contact herbicide that acts on weeds by inhibiting the transport of electrons in the process of photosynthesis. after the initial application, this herbicide successfully dries the weeds in just a few days. since there is still no defined position on the harmful effects of the use of this substance in agricultural production (due to the impact on groundwater, soil quality and final food products). since there is no opinion on all the harms and duration of the adverse effects of the substance itself, it is necessary to carry out meaningful studies to determine the extent and impact of the side effects. the european union must insist on the consistent implementation of existing consumer protection regulations and standards of product quality and safety of the entire production process.
mr. president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr. langen, on his excellent report. as we have all pointed out, the current vat system is complicated, it is heavily administered by entrepreneurs and tax administrations and leaves a lot of room for tax fraud. for this reason, of course, i support this report and the proposals put forward to simplify the vat system, but what i would like to stress is that neither vat reform nor any other can be successful without the unity of all the member states and, of course, the important role that the commission must play in harmonising the whole system. let's take the first step, which is to start working together, sharing information and thereby preventing fraud and protecting honest businesses and citizens while, of course, working in parallel to change and implement a new system.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mrs bearder for the excellent cooperation we have had in producing this report and congratulate her on her work. the illegal trade in wildlife is one of the most lucrative types of organised crime in the world, with an annual turnover of between eur 8 and 20 billion. since 2007, it has more than doubled and tripled, making it the fourth largest illegal activity in the world after drug trafficking, counterfeiting, and human trafficking. this form of crime is becoming a serious threat to the security, political stability, economy, local income, natural resources and cultural heritage of many countries. in the fight against illegal wildlife trade, i believe it is important to take preventive measures to make the supply of illegally caught wildlife as unavailable as possible to our citizens. it is necessary to strengthen control measures and develop effective policies to combat potential illegal activities online. the european union and its member states must consistently implement existing legislation and international agreements. in order to combat this form of organised crime, it is necessary to provide the competent authorities with sufficient resources and appropriate administrative capacity. all stakeholders involved should be appropriately trained in accordance with the important function they perform in that fight against crime. equally important, cooperation between member states is essential for the success of the eu action plan and i see this report as an incentive to better exchange information and to increase joint efforts to put an end to the illegal wildlife trade.
written. the aviation sector is a powerful driver of economic development, job creation, mobility and trade in the european union. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. the commission notes that the increase in the number of passengers in the union from 2000 to 2010 was mainly due to the increase in the number of passengers travelling to the union from 2000 to 2010. the commission's strategy of december 2015 proposes to open negotiations for the signing of eu-level agreements on aviation security with japan and china and air services agreements with china, turkey, asean, uae, oman, qatar, etc. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on 1 january 2012 was signed on behalf of ryanair and the airline's shareholders on 1 january 2013. this is why some of the key questions arise: what are the objectives, issues and timeframes envisaged for the negotiation of air transport agreements? what is the current status of the remaining negotiating directives? how does the commission intend to ensure transparency and access to documents during the negotiations?
written. ‒ i support this report which seeks to ensure the most effective assistance to jordan as soon as possible, recognising the role they have played in helping to resolve the refugee crisis and the need to help their struggling economy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan (com ((2016) 0431 c8-0242/2016 2016/0197 ((cod))), given that it is an eu partner country that has been hit particularly hard by the environment in recent years, which has resulted in the loss of a significant part of its traditional market. jordan has been a country that has maintained stability and made some democratic progress. in addition to the direct economic damage caused by the wars in iraq and syria, it is particularly important to highlight the humanitarian role of jordan, which is home to an estimated 650,000 refugees and more than a million unofficial refugees. all this is putting a strain on the country's economic and social stability and it is necessary to create the conditions for the eu's assistance to be activated as soon as possible.
written. ‒ the kingdom of jordan is one of the countries directly affected by the syrian crisis. jordan's economy has been stagnant for years, but despite its difficult situation, jordan is among the countries that have received the most refugees. in view of the fact that jordan was granted the status of 'advanced partner' of the european union back in 2010, the eu decided to provide macro-financial assistance of eur 200 million for a much-needed reform and economic stabilisation programme. in order to ensure the crucial stability of the region, and given that there is always the possibility that the european commission may suspend or suspend payments in the event that jordan does not meet all the conditions, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the european union's intention to provide jordan with an additional $200 million. it is essential that the european union provides financial assistance to countries that are important foreign policy partners in crisis areas. jordan has done a lot during the syrian conflict and refugee crisis and it is important to show solidarity to mitigate and repair the damage caused by the geographical element. the reception of refugees is a great deed and it is necessary that the european union honour this move and do as much as possible to ensure the development stability of the country and to help the collapsed economy. the aid that will be provided to jordan will be a clear signal and a sign to all the allies of the european union that there is serious, planned and purposeful foreign policy action. the burden borne by all the countries surrounding syria must be distributed to other countries and organizations to achieve uniformity. the european union has experienced a huge wave of refugees in the last year and a half, and it is imperative that the lessons learned are used to develop strategies for the countries where the wave of refugees continues and which have taken in millions of refugees since the beginning of the syrian conflict. the financial assistance should, however, be accompanied by a strong push for institutional stabilisation and the building of an effective state apparatus.
written. ‒ since early 2011, jordan's economy has been destabilised by regional unrest. the weakening effect of the overall world economy has further strained the country's public finances. regional conflicts have not only disrupted trade in the region, but have also meant a large influx of refugees for jordan. at the donor conference held in london in february this year, the international community committed to implementing a global plan to support jordan. the european union is aware that jordan must remain stable for the future of the region. it is also an important partner with whom we have strong economic ties. the union was jordan's second largest trading partner in 2014. the eu-jordan association agreement provides for the establishment of a european union stabilisation and association council, which is to be chaired by the president of the european commission. the eu and jordan need to establish a stronger partnership. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. i would like to emphasise the strategic role of jordan in the coalition against the so-called islamic state and the great efforts it has made in the security and intelligence field and the importance of providing appropriate support to the kingdom of jordan and continuing the political, security and economic dialogue between the european union and jordan.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ jordan has been hit very hard by the syrian crisis. its economy, which is primarily based on services and industry, has been significantly affected by the unrest in the region since 2011. despite the difficult situation, jordan has, along with libya, taken in the largest number of refugees in the world in relation to its population. refugees are not in camps, but in cities, which puts a strain on jordanian health and education. the european union has committed to provide jordan with eur 200 million under the macro-financial assistance programme. the council accepted the proposal of the epp and other political groups to increase the amount of macro-financial assistance to eur 350 million taking into account the specific needs of jordan in relation to the care of such a large number of syrian refugees. i support this report because jordan, despite its economic difficulties, has taken in a large number of syrian refugees and has given them access to its labour market. it's a big burden for jordan and he needs all the help he can get.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. the unrest in the region has significantly affected jordan's services and industrial-based economy. growth has slowed down (2.4%), the unemployment rate is 14.6%, and the decline in tourism and foreign direct investment inflows has continued. in addition, jordan has been the main recipient of syrian refugees since the beginning of the conflict in 2011. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented through the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan, including the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan, the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan and the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan. all the more so when you consider their policy of accepting refugees. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to the kingdom of jordan in the amount of usd 200 million, as i consider it a responsible decision to provide financial assistance to a country which, following the migration crisis, has shown its willingness to accept a large number of refugees from war-torn areas. the european union must build high-quality partnerships with all countries in its near, far and interesting neighbourhood. jordan has taken in a large number of refugees during the refugee crisis, with the latest united nations figures showing almost 650,000 registered people, and estimates that there are only 1.4 million syrians who are not registered. jordan is a small country dependent on international aid that, even before the refugee crisis, was in a difficult financial situation, lacking resources and water that is important for cultivating agricultural land. according to statistics, jordan is one of the 10 driest countries in the world. the european union has an obligation to this country and is obliged to try, at least financially, to amortize and eliminate the damage that results from jordan's placement on the world map. however, assistance should be directed towards concrete development projects and incentives, as well as institution building.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is a step forward towards creating a single market for the eu pension system, which is not the case in practice today.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, as the proposal does not contain any substantive changes, but is limited to a codification without any substantive amendments. however, i consider that the cross-border aspects of the pension system and the exchange of best practices between member states, and the availability of clear and relevant information for members and beneficiaries of occupational pension schemes are of paramount importance. in addition, it is essential to ensure that supervisors have the necessary control tools at their disposal, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the report highlights that pension funds benefit from the free movement of capital within the eu, and the main objective of this proposal is to enable the development of occupational retirement savings. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of authorisations for the placing on the market and use of pension funds. in order to further facilitate the mobility of workers between member states, this directive seeks to ensure good governance, the information of scheme members, the transparency and the security of occupational pension schemes. this directive should facilitate the development of new and innovative pension schemes within collective systems to ensure that everyone has access to an adequate pension, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the revision of directive 2003/41/ec which aims to facilitate the development of occupational retirement savings. european society is old. pension systems across the european union need to be adapted to ensure adequate, secure and sustainable pensions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the revision of directive 2003/41/ec on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision is necessary to protect members and beneficiaries and to enable secure cross-border provision through a number of nationally governed standards in the wake of the economic and financial crisis. there is also a reduction in barriers to the development of a cross-border pension market, which helps companies, including smes, to organise their pension system more efficiently in line with eu rules. there is evidence of significant differences in the level of information of beneficiaries of pension schemes across the eu. this proposal complements and builds on a number of initiatives launched in recent years, such as the white paper on pensions and the green paper on the long-term financing of the european economy.
written. ‒ a resilient pension system includes a diverse range of products and effective supervisory practices. in the light of demographic trends and the state of national budgets, occupational pension schemes are a valuable complement to social security pension schemes. they are under pressure and we are increasingly relying on occupational pensions to supplement other forms of pension insurance. the institutions for occupational retirement provision play an important role in the long-term financing of the economy. they manage assets worth eur 2,5 trillion on behalf of some 75 million members and beneficiaries. despite the entry into force of directive 2003/41/ec, cross-border activity is restricted by differences in national, social and labour law. the new directive aims at achieving minimum harmonisation and does not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing additional provisions to protect members and beneficiaries, provided that those provisions are compatible with the obligations of member states under union law. member states should retain full responsibility for the organisation of their pension systems in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. this directive aims to encourage member states to build sustainable occupational pension systems and to facilitate cross-border activity. it is important to ensure that older persons and persons with disabilities are not exposed to the risk of poverty and can enjoy a decent standard of living.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the eu pension system does not act as a single market. the problems are defined as follows: 1. the complexity of cross-border operations, 2. the requirements of governance and risk management, 3. communication with members and 4. supervisory powers. the report encourages member states to create safe and adequate occupational pension systems. the operational objective is to change the legislation, leading to the abolition of additional requirements for cross-border business and the creation of a single insurance market. the expected benefits are simplification of business, increased competition and creation of a better offer for pension scheme beneficiaries. it will also strengthen private occupational pension insurance. i accept the report because occupational pension schemes will become more efficient and secure, and customer confidence will increase, leading to lower prices and increased demand for their financial services.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. i consider it necessary to protect the beneficiaries of pensions and benefits from the pension system and to establish high standards of governance of pension systems at member state level. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress made in implementing the union's policy on pensions. finally, there is evidence that there are currently significant gaps in the member states' information systems on the actual state of pension systems that will need to be addressed by the common policies of the member states.
written. ‒ i support the report on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. the general objective of this directive is to facilitate the development of pension systems for employees in the occupational sectors. during the last economic and financial crisis in recent years, first-pillar pensions have come under severe pressure in a number of member states, with the result that pension payments have been made more difficult in some countries. the general demographic trends in europe are worrying the population is old, there is a low fertility rate, there is a large number of workers missing in key labour market niches such as medicine, finance, banking, it and construction. the development of occupational pension insurance is necessary to increase citizens' confidence and participation in pension funds. good supervision and management of such a system is a prerequisite for confidence in the pension system. this directive should not create additional burdensome regulations and circumstances for member states, but should instrumentalise support to member states in their efforts to develop occupational pension schemes.
written. ‒ missing the first part of the text...the massacre that is happening in syria, but should act collectively through its high representative and take the lead in international efforts for a diplomatic solution and an end to the bloody war.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in syria, mainly on the grounds that it is urgent to bring an end to the conflict which has lasted for too long and has led to tragic consequences for innocent people. i agree with the view of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, ms mogherini, that europe should make its utmost efforts to find solutions and stop conflicts, and i believe that the eu has the credibility to participate in peace negotiations. sustainable peace must be achieved as soon as possible to stop the suffering of the innocent. the only way to stabilize the region is to find a lasting solution in which one side of the conflict does not emerge as the big winner. the solution of the type of bosnia and herzegovina mentioned above, which still generates political instability, should be avoided. not only would syria be a dysfunctional state, but the area would become a constant source of new potential war conflicts.
written. ‒ it is important to reach an urgent agreement on the delivery of humanitarian aid to aleppo and the securing of humanitarian corridors to evacuate wounded civilians and those wishing to withdraw from the city during the fighting. it is essential to ensure that the aid that the world is sending to syria and to the victims reaches those who really need it. in this regard, i support the efforts of the high representative to reach an agreement with all parties to the conflict. the establishment of humanitarian breaks is a prerequisite for ensuring the transport of humanitarian aid to the war-torn city and the provision of first aid to the wounded soldiers and civilians. the belligerents must stop shelling buildings marked with hospital signs, otherwise they are in serious violation of international law. i express my hope that this conflict will soon end and that the displaced population will return to their homes. the european union must continue to be persistent in providing humanitarian aid. it must do so during the conflict, but also after the conflict itself to ensure the reconstruction of the city, the rebuilding of the destroyed infrastructure, the cleaning of the city of explosive devices and other residues of the conflict.
written. ‒ the violence in syria continues, as do the ongoing human rights violations committed by all parties to the conflict. people are facing severe shortages of food and medical supplies in cities across the country. schools, hospitals, as well as other civilian infrastructure and aid workers have been attacked. the responsibility for these acts must be established. as long as this state of non-accountability persists, it encourages further human rights violations in the conflict, further contributes to the suffering of people in that conflict. the eu and its member states must support more actively the special investigation into the unprecedented events in aleppo in october 2016. all parties to the conflict must take the necessary measures to protect civilians, irrespective of their ethnic or religious affiliation. all parties to the conflict must also ensure the passage of humanitarian aid throughout syria and allow the evacuation of those in urgent need of medical assistance. there is no military solution to this conflict. i call on all parties to cease hostilities as soon as possible and return to the negotiating table. local actors in syria must be convinced of the need to end the conflict. i expect influential regional and global powers to play a positive role in this. i welcome the recent initiatives of the high representative to revitalise the geneva process and look forward to an even more successful eu role in the cessation of the conflict and the subsequent reconstruction and reconciliation of syria.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the council underlines that the eu is appalled by the deterioration of the situation in syria, in particular in aleppo. call for an emergency ceasefire. the eu will continue its intensive humanitarian diplomacy and urges the syrian government to provide aid corridors to aleppo. the syrian regime needs to protect its people. the eu strongly condemns his attacks on its own people. the council calls on russia to make every effort to halt the military actions of the syrian regime forces and to facilitate the delivery of aid. the eu strongly condemns the use of chemical weapons and the atrocities committed by daesh and other terrorist groups. i support this resolution because the syrian people are in a very difficult humanitarian situation, particularly in aleppo. everything must be done to stop military operations, to end the suffering and deliver humanitarian aid to the starving people.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution tabled following the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure on the situation in syria (b8 1250/2016). i strongly condemn all attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, the continuation of all sieges in syria and the fact that there is no humanitarian access for the needy syrian people. i call on all to respect the rights of religious minorities in syria, especially christians, to continue to live in dignity, equality and security in areas that are their historical and traditional homeland and to practice their faith and beliefs freely, without being victims of coercion, violence or discrimination.
written. ‒ i support the resolution by which the european parliament wants to draw attention to the situation in syria. concerned about the developments, it calls on the entire world public to pay special attention to the unacceptable suffering and suffering of thousands of people in the war-torn country. since the beginning of the counter-offensive by the regime and its allies, the intensity and frequency of airstrikes on aleppo has increased, and the attack itself does not spare the facilities protected by international humanitarian law (hospitals, shelters, schools). a state of total war and fighting each other to the point of impossibility is certainly not the solution to the complex political situation in syria. it is essential to start negotiations as soon as possible, accompanied by the establishment of a humanitarian ceasefire throughout the country, in particular in the major cities, in order to provide the population with the necessary resources and humanitarian assistance and to allow them to leave the conflict zone safely through humanitarian corridors. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary support to the syrian authorities in the event of a crisis, in particular in the context of the ongoing conflict in syria.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on eu-turkey relations, given the delicate relationship with a country that is on the one hand a partner of the eu and in terms of reducing the pressure of the migrant crisis, participation in nato and economic cooperation, and a country that has been in the process of negotiating eu accession for many years. on the other hand, the democratic deficit and the increasing repression of opponents of the government, which intensified after the failed coup, are unacceptable. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights, including the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the field of human rights in the region since the beginning of the year.
written. ‒ given the current situation, turkey remains an important partner of the eu and the political will to cooperate must exist on both sides of the partnership. for this reason i did not support this resolution because i believe that it is not in the interest of either the eu or croatia at this moment to suspend negotiations with turkey.
written. ‒ the latest progress report showed a serious backsliding in the rule of law and fundamental rights in turkey, especially when the functioning of the judiciary and freedom of expression are taken into account. turkey, if it wants to become a member of the european union one day, must uphold the highest standards of human rights protection and nurture key european values. i unambiguously express my support for the european union's already well-known position that condemned the coup attempt as a direct attack on democracy in turkey. however, the actions taken by the turkish leadership regarding the persecution of journalists, kurds, military officials and their families are unacceptable from the point of view of understanding and respecting basic democratic requirements and accessibility and fairness of the judicial process. the defence of democracy must not and cannot be carried out by undemocratic methods. it is essential that the european union continues to give its full support to the reform process in turkey and, through joint work and cooperation, to monitor all processes and changes and insist on consistent, sincere and full respect for all the demands that the european union places on turkey in order to ensure that this country respects the legacy created over decades.
written. ‒ the european parliament strongly condemned the attempted coup in turkey and recognised the legitimate responsibility of the turkish authorities to sanction those involved in the coup. however, the repressive measures taken during the declared state of emergency are an excessive reaction by ankara and constitute a violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution of the country. they are not befitting a country considered a candidate for membership in our union. i am particularly concerned about the statements of the head of state on the reintroduction of the death penalty, and i am also concerned about the conditions in which the detainees are held. rumors of torture and other serious human rights violations cannot be ignored, just as it is impossible not to notice the serious violations of freedom of expression in turkey. the decisions taken by turkey will have to be reflected in the overall status of its negotiations with the eu and progress in the negotiations will not be possible until turkey has lifted the state of emergency. there can be no question of visa liberalisation until turkey actually starts to fulfil the conditions agreed in advance. i call on the turkish authorities to renew their commitment to respect the rule of law and human rights and to successfully return to a deep and mutually beneficial relationship with the eu. for a democratic and stable turkey, the eu is wide open, and our strategic partnership is key to a more peaceful and prosperous region.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ president erdogan and the turkish government are moving away from the rule of law and using aggressive communication towards the eu and a freeze of negotiations and pre-accession assistance to turkey will be proposed, which will be a clear signal that we do not tolerate the current situation in that country. the eu has supported turkey's european path and its transition to a modern democracy and market economy for the past ten years. turkey was seen as a shining example of democracy in the islamic state, as opposed to the arab states gripped by unrest and military conflict. the authoritarian regime that the then prime minister and now president erdogan began to impose in 2013 has alienated turkey from the eu, especially after the coup d'état of july this year and the repressive measures imposed at that time. i do not support this resolution because i believe that turkey must change its political direction and return to the path of democracy in order to be able to set out again towards europe. the eu will continue to maintain good relations with the turkish people living within europe.
written. ‒ i do not support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on eu-turkey relations. i respected the decision taken by the croatian minister of foreign affairs and voted in accordance with it.
written. - i do not support the motion for a resolution calling for the suspension of negotiations with turkey for two very important reasons. first, turkey, because of its exceptional geostrategic and geopolitical position, is a pivotal country in the middle east and the european union's cooperation with turkey in addressing all security issues in the region is crucial. turkey is an important partner of the european union in managing refugee flows and has made significant efforts to take in large numbers of refugees from war-affected areas. turkey's active engagement in the syrian conflict reflects its readiness to pursue a responsible foreign policy in line with european attempts to end the state of perpetual war. on the other hand, the purpose of accession negotiations is to identify the irregularities and inadequacies of the system, its weak points and to try to establish a framework that will be a prerequisite for future development and progress in all areas, including the protection of human rights and democratic values. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the accession negotiations with turkey, which would allow the eu to continue to pursue its policy of enlargement.
written. ‒ there is still no strategy at european level, let alone a law, to condemn such violence. in the eu, seven women die from violence every day. we can't wait a day! in march this year, the european commission launched the process of ratifying the council of europe's istanbul convention, a comprehensive international agreement to combat violence against women and domestic violence. but despite this, the council is holding back progress, and most countries have not adopted the convention, citing the high cost of implementation. the cost of violence against women at eu level is 1.8 per cent of eu gdp, or 228 billion a year. but i don't need numbers to know that human life and dignity are the most valuable.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women because violence against women and gender-based violence remains a widespread phenomenon within the eu and must be effectively addressed. gender equality is one of the eu's core values and, as a strategic objective, is key to achieving the overall europe 2020 objectives of growth, employment and social inclusion. i supported this proposal, which guarantees a harmonised european legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women, and in addition better monitoring, interpretation and implementation of eu laws, programmes and funds relevant to the convention.
written. ‒ gender equality is a strategic objective that is key to achieving the overall europe 2020 goals for growth, employment and social inclusion. i consider violence against women to be a violation of fundamental rights and a serious criminal offence. we must use all means to combat violence against women and to achieve full equality, but i abstained in view of the gender ideology that this report promotes, which should have no place here.
written. ‒ 14 eu countries have not ratified the istanbul convention, including croatia. i therefore believe that instead of forcing the ratification of the istanbul convention, which is obviously not acceptable to all, we should find an acceptable and effective solution to combat violence against women. the only legally binding international act that contains a definition of gender so far is the rome statute and it explicitly says that gender refers to the two sexes male and female, however the istanbul convention gives a completely different definition. this raises a second question: if the eu ratifies the convention and makes it part of european legislation, which it has not been until now - namely, a concrete definition of gender that is not based on sex - this means that we will have to change the treaties and introduce this definition, which is neither natural nor acceptable, and which will ultimately also violate the rights of parents to raise their own children. it will also seek to harmonise parts of national legislation and to penalise member states. it is true that the istanbul convention brings with it many useful provisions that could really help victims of violence, but most of these positive measures already exist in the legislation of the member states.
written. ‒ 45% of all women in europe have been victims of gender-based violence. it has a huge impact on them and represents a great wound in our societies. a wound we can no longer ignore. violence against women is too often considered a private matter and too easily tolerated. it is necessary to encourage women who are victims of violence to report what has happened and to seek help, and to ensure that service providers can meet the needs of victims and inform them of their rights and of the forms of support available. victimization studies, along with administrative statistics, are crucial to obtain a complete picture of the different forms of violence against women. gender equality is one of the eu's core values and is, as a strategic objective, key to achieving the overall europe 2020 objectives of growth, employment and social inclusion. but the istanbul convention has so far been ratified by only fourteen member states. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to sign and complete the eu's accession to the convention. the eu's accession will ensure a harmonised european legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and gender-based violence and to protect victims. i call on the council and the commission to speed up the negotiations on the signing and conclusion of the istanbul convention and to cooperate with parliament and make a strong effort to fulfil their commitments.
‒ the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women is the first legally binding instrument of its kind at international level, and defines violence as all acts of physical, sexual, psychological and economic violence that occur in the family between partners. all member states have signed the istanbul convention, but half have not yet ratified it among others croatia. the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention will allow for greater efficiency and coherence in the implementation of measures that would contribute to the prevention of violence across europe, as well as guarantee better implementation of the eu legislation, programmes and funds established to that end. in addition, it will contribute to the eu's broader objectives in the areas of gender equality, non-discrimination, public health and economic growth, and will enhance the eu's accountability and its role in combating violence against women and gender-based violence at international level. for the reasons stated above, i fully support the european parliament's resolution and hereby call for the swift accession to the istanbul convention, as well as for the ratification of the republic of croatia, in order to protect equality between women and men, one of the fundamental values of the european union, as set out in the treaties and the charter, and in the form of gender-based violence.
‒ the istanbul convention is a comprehensive international treaty on combating violence against women and domestic violence. the european commission proposed in march 2016 that the european union ratify the council of europe istanbul convention. one in three women in the eu has experienced physical and/or sexual violence. more than half of women have experienced sexual harassment by the age of 15. these numbers are unacceptable. the eu's accession to the convention will encourage better eu-level data collection on violence against women and the harmonisation of legislation within the eu member states. the convention insists on the protection of victims and the prosecution of perpetrators. the convention has been signed by all eu member states and is being urged to be ratified as soon as possible by the national parliaments of those member states which have not yet done so. i support this resolution, which is being voted on on the eve of the international day for the elimination of violence against women. victims of violence must be helped, and perpetrators must be punished. women who are victims of violence must be better protected in europe.
written. ‒ i did not support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. i fully support the fight against violence against women and i believe that the european union and all its institutions must activate all instruments to reduce the scale of violence against women. however, despite what the title of the convention does not suggest, the concept of gender, or gender-based violence, is emphasized in several places in its content. i believe that in the implementation of women's protection, it is not necessary to emphasize the concept of gender whose content is contrary to my beliefs and my worldview. that is why i did not support the motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women, as this document introduces a whole series of new definitions that require systematic changes to the fundamental treaties of the union and national legislation. without denying the importance of existing efforts to combat and combat violence not only against women but also against men, minority groups, refugees, asylum seekers and migrants, i believe that this resolution, as well as the convention itself, give new substance to the very instruments and mechanisms for protecting women and men from psychological, physical and sexual violence and establish credible elements of monitoring the implementation of the provisions of the convention at member state level. in addition, the general stance on reducing violence and zero tolerance towards all forms of violence is already embedded in the fundamental treaties and constitutional texts of the member states. it is necessary to implement a systematic approach to individual problems and to combat them through the development of awareness of the harmfulness of violence and through an educational process that must be aimed at accepting the differences between men and women.
written. ‒ i support this report which welcomes the work of the european ombudsman and highlights the main areas for 2015. the role of the office is to investigate complaints from citizens about the mismanagement of the eu institutions or other eu bodies, which can also be investigated on its own initiative, with the aim of helping to make the eu institutions more open and accessible to citizens.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the annual report on the european ombudsman's activities during 2015 because the institution's work has proved to be excellent, as has the annual report. the european ombudsman, ms emily o'reilly, has received much praise for her work to improve the quality of the services provided by the european administration to citizens. o'reilly sees the importance of transparency as a key component of building trust and good governance. the european ombudsman's proposals have encouraged the commission to increase the transparency of the ttip negotiations and, as a result, the commission has published a number of documents on ttip, thus placing transparency as one of the three pillars of the commission's new trade strategy.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that the european ombudsman has demonstrated through her 2015 work report that she has fulfilled her duties conscientiously and effectively. the institution of the european ombudsman is an important factor in the democratic nature of the european institutions, which is why i consider it extremely important that there is an adequate person in this position, a person who will work proactively to the satisfaction of the citizens of europe and to the improvement of the work of the institutions. the ombudsman helps individuals, businesses and associations facing irregularities in the actions of the institutions of the european union. it is therefore of the utmost importance that citizens have confidence in the institution of the ombudsman and that it makes continuous efforts to improve the quality of the european administration and to ensure transparency as a key element of the institutions' work, as well as of the negotiation and decision-making processes. i also consider particularly important the efforts of the european ombudsman to protect whistleblowers, as well as the investigation into compliance with the charter of fundamental rights in the implementation of measures financed by european funds.
written. ‒ the right of citizens to have their voices heard in eu policy-making is more important than ever, and in this sense transparency and full access to documents of the institutions are a necessary precondition for the full realisation of citizens' democratic rights. the european ombudsman's efforts to increase transparency in the ttip negotiations through his proposals to the commission are therefore to be commended, and the inclusion of transparency in the pillars of the commission's new trade strategy is to be welcomed. i also support the european ombudsman's determination to make the work of the european central bank more transparent and in line with high governance standards. the interests of good governance in one of the most important european financial institutions must be protected. i therefore also call for greater transparency in the meetings of the eurogroup. lobbying should also be made more transparent and the commission should make all information on lobbying influence easily accessible to the public through a single centralised online database. i regret that the commission has provided incomplete documentation to the committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector (emis). it is necessary to fully respect the principle of sincere cooperation in the future. the european ombudsman continues to investigate 'round-door' cases in the commission, but i would like to remind you that conflict of interest is a broader concept than 'round-door' cases. i congratulate mrs emily o'reilly on her excellent work towards creating the european administration that all our citizens deserve.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman during 2015. emily oreilly's work as european ombudsman, bringing together the ombudsmen of the member states in a network, has been successful in responding to the complaints of union citizens. the report above is a reliable indicator of the ombudsman's comprehensive work in assisting individuals, businesses and associations facing irregularities in the eu institutions. in 2015, the european ombudsman's office assisted 17 033 european citizens, and this figure alone speaks to the need to nurture the tradition of the institution of the ombudsman, both at the level of the european union and at the level of all the member states.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the annual report on the work of the european ombudsman in 2015. the resolution congratulates emily o'reilly for her outstanding work and efforts in her role as ombudsman to improve the quality of the services offered to citizens by the european administration. this resolution continues to address the existing problems of the day-to-day functioning of the european union, which continues to struggle with the problems of low transparency, democratic deficit and a high proportion of informal negotiations that are not publicly available between the three main institutions of the european union. the overall negotiation processes, to the extent that the substance of the negotiations allows, should be more open to the public, as the decision-making process is perceived as being entirely separate and detached from citizens and the particular interests of the negotiating parties are promoted. in good faith and with confidence in the european institutions, it is nevertheless important to make citizens aware of the activities, negotiations and agreements and to inform them in detail of the changes that each decision or act has for the daily life of citizens. the european parliament should express its unequivocal support for the work of the european ombudsman, but also for national ombudsmen. the system must serve and be accountable to the citizens.
written. ‒ i support this report which aims to amend the proposals to improve the vat collection system, to eradicate vat fraud and to reduce red tape. it also aims to simplify business and, most importantly, to highlight the need for harmonisation at eu level in relation to tax rules.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on 'towards a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud' because i believe it is important to improve the existing system and, as the report itself says, to implement fundamental reforms that will eliminate or at least significantly reduce the problems of the existing system, and in particular the problem of vat collection in europe. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of directive 2014/25/eu.
written. ‒ the current vat system is complicated, requires a large amount of administration at the level of entrepreneurs and tax administrations and leaves a lot of room for tax fraud. that is why i supported this report and the proposals to simplify the vat system, but neither vat reform nor any other reform can be successful without the unity of all member states. i do not agree with the complete abolition of the minimum rate of vat, but i do believe that harmonisation at eu level is certainly necessary and therefore i support the establishment of a single european list of products and services to which the reduced rate applies. it is essential that the commission plays the important role it has in harmonising the whole system. by simply working together and sharing information, even without other changes, we would surely reduce the number and devastating financial impact of fraud. i call on everyone, as a start, as we work on a new simplified and harmonised vat system, to take this first step and protect honest businessmen and citizens from fraud.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the creation of a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud. the new vat action plan aims at a more comprehensive and fairer internal market through the eu strategy for a digital single market and a single european vat area. the fight against vat revenue losses and vat-related tax fraud should be a priority for the eu and the member states, and the need for a more inclusive and fairer single market to promote tax justice, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness is also highlighted. the new action plan should be subject to a detailed impact assessment. the vat is a regressive tax and has the greatest impact on low-income groups, and therefore member states should take this into account when setting the rate for goods frequently used by low-income groups. the expert opinion on which the commission's proposals are based is a strong support for the vat system.
written. ‒ vat is an important and growing source of revenue for member states and contributes to the eu's own resources, but the existing system is prone to fraud, tax avoidance and non-collection strategies. the types of fraud are diverse and cover many economic sectors. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the tax base of the member states. vat fraud distorts the fiscal environment, particularly harming small and medium-sized enterprises, and is exploited by criminal organisations that exploit existing legislative gaps between member states. it is necessary to harmonise tax policies and to introduce more efficient exchanges of information relating to intra-community trade. the commission should therefore analyse the impact of non-harmonisation of tax rates at union level, in particular as regards cross-border activities, and consider ways of removing those obstacles. i call for the urgent and full integration of services into the new system and, in particular, for financial services to be subject to vat. we need a single european vat area a genuine basis for a deeper and fairer internal market that will help to promote tax justice, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness while reducing the potential for vat fraud.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the vat system that has existed in the european union since 1993 was conceived as a transitional system, but has been in force for 23 years. the commission will present a proposal for a final vat system that will be fair and less fraudulent by 2017, and points out that a simple vat system with fewer exceptions is needed for the digital single market to function well. we agree with the commission that the final vat system should be based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services, since the implementation of the principle of country of origin has not been possible. we are in favour of introducing a single european vat area. we ask the commission to analyse the impact of different tax rates in the eu as they create a lot of uncertainty for smes operating outside their own country. i accept the report because changing the way taxes are calculated and simplifying it will help reduce tax fraud and make it easier to do business across borders within the eu, especially for the fast-growing digital services market.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the final vat system and the fight against vat fraud as it lays the foundation for harmonising the vat system in the fight against vat fraud. in order to prevent widespread fraud, it is necessary to make prompt adjustments to the legislation to establish a single vat system with as few exceptions as possible. i also welcome the call on member states to level the playing field for private and public companies in sectors where they compete with each other. the commission notes that the measure is not imputable to the state and that the state has no control over the measure.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the report on 'towards a final vat system and the fight against vat fraud'. member states have varying success in detecting tax fraud and tax evasion, with the difference between the tax collected and the actual tax being between 5 and 40%, depending on the member state. the actors in tax fraud are individuals, legal entities and natural persons, but also companies and organised crime. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the tax measures on the taxable persons of member states, in particular on the taxable persons of third countries. the lack of comparable data and adequate indicators measuring the performance of member states affects the ability and effectiveness of the european union's system to combat tax fraud within the union itself. i therefore consider it important that this resolution calls on the tax authorities to establish a common system for assessing the size of internal tax fraud in cooperation with the commission and to set targets to reduce the total amount of money found in such illicit flows. the emergence of a definitive vat area is a prerequisite for the creation of a deeper and more uniform single market driven by tax justice, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade because it has serious negative effects on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the home countries, natural resources and species conservation. moreover, trafficking in human beings has increased in recent years worldwide and is one of the largest and most lucrative forms of organised cross-border crime, which also finances other forms of serious and organised crime. this report, which i voted for, calls on the commission, the member states, the european external action service and the eu agencies europol and eurojust to take note that wildlife crime is a serious and growing threat that needs to be addressed urgently at political level. the need for comprehensive and coordinated approaches across all policy areas arises as this trade is a growing threat to global security, political stability, economic development, local sources of income and the rule of law.
written. ‒ illegal trade in flora and fauna has become a form of international crime. the value of this activity is estimated at several billions of dollars, and what makes it even more problematic is that it is increasing year by year. adding to the problem is the fact that this money also finances other forms of organized crime, such as human trafficking and drug smuggling, which then also create problems in other areas. the european union should take a strategic approach to this problem, as illegal trade in flora and fauna can threaten world security and political stability, as well as economic development. recently, we've seen a decline in biodiversity, which really leads us to wonder if we're in for another wave of mass extinction. consciousness among people has not been awakened, and this presents a major problem in the fight against illegal trade in flora and fauna. in order to start working on this and to raise people's awareness, political engagement is necessary. also, to maintain the un sustainable development goal, it is crucial to prevent further illegal trade in flora and fauna. the european union must address this issue as soon as possible to prevent further declines in the numbers of these precious species, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the eu action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade. the report recognises all the challenges of a global world and warns of the threats to societies posed by the illegal trade in wildlife. the report also recognises the position and importance of the european area as both a transit area and an area of final destination and illegal trade. i welcome calls for promotion and all forms of fighting this form of organized crime. that fight has to be adequately funded. the member states, but also the european union itself, must ensure that the necessary administrative capacity is in place and that the actors, whatever their role in the fight, are adequately equipped. i would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge all the assistance and support to ngos of citizens in this fight against the illegal trade in wild fauna and flora both within the eu and in third countries from which specimens come. we have the appropriate legislative framework and it will only improve in the coming time. it's time we implement it consistently because there's no good reason not to.
written. ‒ the illegal trade in wildlife is a form of international organised crime estimated at some eur 20 billion a year and finances other forms of organised crime. i consider this kind of trade a serious threat to world security, political stability and economic development. the links between illegal wildlife trade and regional conflicts and terrorism need to be more systematically explored. the eu must build a coordinated and strategic approach involving all relevant stakeholders. i therefore welcome the commission's action plan, which highlights the need for coordinated action to tackle the causes, to apply existing rules effectively and to strengthen global cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination. the eu, third countries and civil society should conduct a series of awareness raising campaigns to achieve a reduction in demand for this trade through genuine and lasting behavioural changes in individuals and society. the eu also needs to urgently address the problem of corruption and the lack of international governance measures along the chain of illegal wildlife trade. we cannot be the generation that has witnessed the sixth great extinction of species on our planet, fueled by the illegal trade in wildlife, and do nothing about it. future generations deserve to see nature in all its richness as we know it.
written. ‒ illegal wildlife trade is a form of international organised crime that has increased in recent years and poses a serious threat to global security, political stability, economic development and the rule of law. the european union is on a regular route as a destination market, a transit route, but also a source of illegal trade in endangered european plant and animal species. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. the problem of tackling illegal wildlife trade is addressed in the eu security programme 2015-2020, which states that such illegal activities threaten biodiversity in regions of origin, sustainable development and regional stability. accordingly, it is necessary to mobilise and involve civil society in order to raise awareness of the need to stop buying products of dubious origin. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and on the environment in the member states. i supported a european parliament resolution, aware of the scale of this growing problem, to enable enforcement, increase cooperation and prevent crime and to recognise the eu as a destination market, source and transit point for illicit trade.
written. ‒ wildlife crime is on the rise and there are threats of further species loss. we call on the eu and third countries to implement campaigns to change the behaviour of individuals and society, leading to a reduction in demand for illegal wildlife. the illegal trade in wildlife has become a multibillion-dollar business, dominated by criminal groups and helping to finance terrorist groups. i accept the report because it underlines the shared responsibility of eu member states and the need to face the challenge of illegal wildlife trade. this will not only preserve biodiversity for future generations, but also improve and strengthen the eu's security framework.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the eu action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade. i believe that the motion for a resolution adequately addresses the establishment of a prevention against illegal trade in wild fauna and flora by emphasising the importance of its suppression for the preservation of the environment, but also for the protection of the rule of law and the human rights system. i also stressed the need to increase the effectiveness of the enforcement of the fight against illegal trade in fauna and flora, which should be based on higher penalties and greater efficiency of the state repressive apparatus. as trade in wild fauna and flora is a global problem, with the european union often a transit point, consensus needs to be reached at the level of the entire international community and the global partnership on this issue needs to be strengthened.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on new opportunities for small transport companies, including cooperative business models, because it is smes that are the main drivers of the european economy and need to be helped to turn the challenges presented to them in this report into opportunities. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market and the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market. small businesses are facing these and many other challenges more difficult and costly, and this report therefore considers that any regulation imposing new conditions on small businesses, including in tax, social and environmental matters, must be proportionate, simple and clear, must not hamper their development and, where necessary, must reflect the regional and national characteristics of individual member states.
‒ small hauliers in europe are improving individual passenger transport and play a key role in the transport of passengers and goods. in order to ensure that the transport sector is able to benefit from the union's internal market, the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the internal market. the report offers several suggestions for turning many challenges into opportunities for small businesses, such as strengthening the european transport area, removing disparities in the application of rights, fostering convergence between the traditional economy and platforms including collaborative business models, and strengthening coordination between local authorities and small transport companies to improve mobility. as new business models, digitalisation and technological breakthroughs are significantly changing the transport sector and strongly affecting traditional business models, as well as working conditions and employment in the sector, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support this report on new opportunities for small hauliers. the view of all the leading economic and financial institutions is clear that sustainable economic growth is only possible if there is strong entrepreneurial activity, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. this report contains several key proposals to turn the challenges faced by small hauliers into opportunities. for example, the report calls for accelerating efforts to create a single transport area that would eliminate all differences and disparities between countries. the report also calls for the consistent application of the law, in particular those governing competition and antitrust policy. the advantage and incentive provided by this report is particularly evident in the momentum related to fostering the convergence between the traditional economy and transitional modern activities that require business models based on cooperation and establishing frameworks in which all economic operators will participate in ensuring the existence of quality infrastructure and investment in society. the organisation of better coordination between local authorities and small transport companies is a prerequisite for the establishment of quality urban mobility, which will in future be the carrier of environmentally friendly passenger and freight transport.
written. ‒ small businesses are a key element of european mobility and are full of talent who need a stimulating environment to develop. in particular, they often encounter difficulties in entering the market and maintaining their position on it, in particular because of the presence of a monopoly on that market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the commission and the member states should take measures to combat practices by large associations that distort competition. a potential solution is to bring together small hauliers, encourage partnerships and find useful services that consumers demand. the reduction of transaction costs and the importance of the physical location of service providers made possible by new technologies and digital tools must be exploited to the greatest possible extent. a modern multimodal regulatory framework is needed to foster innovation, competitiveness and consumer protection, as well as workers' rights. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european works council, the establishment of a european works council and the establishment of a european works council. we need more europe in this sector too.
‒ small and medium-sized transport enterprises are the main drivers of the european economy because of their key role in mobility across europe. public transport networks are important in urban centres, especially during peak times, but also in remote and densely populated areas, where they contribute to reducing social exclusion, creating jobs and developing tourism. considering that today's transport must be integrated, multimodal and digitalised, it is worrying that as many as 41% of companies do not use advanced digital technologies at all. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the digital transformation of transport on the competitiveness of the union's transport sector. very quickly, by 2050, 80% of people will be living in cities, which means that urban mobility will become an extremely important factor of everyday life. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the transition to a low-carbon economy on the transport sector. i supported the european parliament's resolution to invest further efforts in completing the single european transport area, thereby contributing to the further growth and development of small and medium-sized transport companies that will offer safe, sustainable and highly competitive solutions.
written. ‒ small hauliers play a key role in the smooth functioning of mobility in europe, but often face difficulties in entering the market and operating. to respond to the challenges in this area, it is necessary to:- step up efforts to create a single european transport area and to eliminate disparities in the application of different rights;- encourage convergence between the traditional transport model and new models, such as 'pay-as-you-go' platforms, in order to stimulate innovation, consumer protection and fair competition;- organise better coordination between local authorities and small transport companies to improve urban mobility that will be fully decarbonised in the near future. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on new opportunities for small transport companies. i think it was necessary at the european union level to recognise the importance that small transport companies, whether they transport goods or people, have in the european union economy. i also support the call on the commission and the member states to take appropriate measures to combat practices by large associations that distort competition in order to address the problem of discrimination and limited market access irrespective of the size or type of undertaking. i also believe that no additional administrative burden and costs should be imposed on small hauliers, but that legislation should be adapted to strengthen their business and make them more competitive.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on new opportunities for small transport companies, including business models based on cooperation. small and medium-sized enterprises are the main drivers of the european economy and provide two thirds of jobs, particularly in the service sector. the demand for transport services, for persons as well as for goods, and the conditions under which they are provided differ significantly and do not take into account reduced mobility. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. self-employment services can be a good way of self-employment and promoting an entrepreneurial culture. this resolution invites the commission and the member states to consider bringing together small hauliers, thereby encouraging the development of partnerships between them and helping consumers to find the necessary services from small hauliers according to their needs. the resolution encourages the competent institutions to make further efforts to complete the single european transport area and to ensure that the new conditions in tax, social and environmental matters are proportionate.
written. ‒ i support this report on the situation in belarus, noting that the situation in that country should continue to be monitored closely.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in belarus as, despite some improvements, progress in that country is too slow in view of the earlier reports of the european parliament. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu's 'special needs' and 'special needs' programmes. there is a lack of progress in respecting political rights, freedom of speech and opinion, freedom of the media, the operation of the non-governmental sector. despite the improvements, the government of belarus is called upon to rehabilitate and release political prisoners. the eu and belarus should continue to develop cooperation in the economic field. it is necessary to call for a moratorium and subsequent abolition of the death penalty still in force in that country.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of a resolution that will clearly define the position of the european union on the political and socio-economic life of belarus. it is the country that is famous for being the last dictatorship on the european continent. any form of economic cooperation must not be achieved unless respect for human rights is made an absolute priority as a precondition for such cooperation. the recent elections in belarus have unfortunately confirmed that the country still has no intention of embarking on the path of democratic reforms. the eusr shall also provide the union with the necessary technical and financial assistance to implement the mandate of the eusr. the protection of human and civil rights is the foundation of the european union and its external action must reflect what the union is at its core: a space for the highest protection of all rights. added to the problem is the death penalty, a procedure and sanction that the modern world has rejected. the democratization and building of democratic institutions must be the absolute priority of the european union when it comes to belarus. securing basic freedoms and protection from any persecution, especially political, must be the path belarus will take if it wants to have any ties with the european union. this message must be clearly sent.
written. ‒ the progress made is to be welcomed, but i would point out that it is still not enough. for the first time in a long time, the democratic opposition will have representatives in the belarusian parliament, but two independent members of parliament cannot be expected to take on the role of a true opposition. critical voices from within the country have condemned the recent elections and found them to be again not a credible reflection of the will of the citizens. the belarusian authorities should continue without delay to work on comprehensive electoral reform, which is part of the wider democratisation process, in cooperation with international partners. our policy of 'critical engagement' towards the belarusian authorities needs to be continued and i therefore call on the delegation for relations with belarus and the commission to follow legislative initiatives closely and to monitor their implementation. belarus is the only country in europe that still carries out the death penalty and the authorities have not stopped repressing political opponents. the abolition of restrictions on the running of political parties and the first steps towards abolition of the death penalty are needed. released political prisoners must be rehabilitated and restored to full civil and political rights. i also want to point out that i am concerned about the safety issues surrounding the nuclear power plant in ostrovec, just outside the eu border. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the work of the european external action service (eeas).
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the resolution refers to the recent parliamentary elections in belarus. concerns are expressed about electoral irregularities detected by independent observers. it calls on belarus to continue reforming the electoral system. the released political prisoners must be rehabilitated and restored to full civil rights. we will encourage belarus to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty. we call on the commission to take the necessary measures to simplify the visa regime with belarus. the belarusian authorities must guarantee respect for democratic principles, human rights and freedoms in all circumstances. the people of belarus need to be helped to develop democracy. i support this resolution in the hope that it will result in positive developments in belarus. the resolution follows the good example of the resolution adopted by the european parliament following last year's presidential elections in belarus.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i believe this is the key to achieving the desired improvement in relations between the eu and belarus. i believe that the belarusian government should rehabilitate the released political prisoners and restore their civil and political rights.
written. ‒ i support the resolution which seeks to encourage the belarusian authorities to carry out a systematic democratisation of the entire socioeconomic and political life of the country. belarus is the last authoritarian system in europe and the european union must take active action to allow democracy to penetrate the country. a whole series of violations of democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms is visible in belarus. the conditions for any economic cooperation between the european union and belarus and any financial assistance and investment arrangements must be conditional on comprehensive electoral reform, democratisation, the release and rehabilitation of released political prisoners and the restoration of all civil and political rights, a free process of registration of political parties and the abolition of the practice of unlawful persecution and arbitrary application of the law that has enabled the persecution of independent media. the european union must stand firmly behind the values on which it was founded and which it cherishes and must not allow any economic interest to override respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in third countries.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the committee on development and its chair, mrs mcavan, for putting energy high on the development agenda. european union development cooperation in sustainable energy is supporting developing countries to advance towards economic growth powered by sustainable, affordable, reliable and modern energy for all. the three objectives of our energy and development engagements are to address the lack of energy access, to increase renewable energy generation and to contribute to the fight against climate change while ensuring sustainable use of resources. specific attention is given to sub-saharan africa. half of the global population without access to energy lives in this region and demographics aggravate the issue, with repercussions for political stability and migration to europe. in order to achieve our ambition, three factors are critical for success. first is policy ownership at the highest level. the promotion of energy, in particular renewable energy, must be owned by the partners. in the current financial framework, energy is a focal sector in about 30 national and regional indicative programmes. the commission has signed, on behalf of the european union and together with several member states, 21 joint declarations on enhanced energy cooperation with developing countries’ partners. second is the creation of an enabling environment. through our technical assistance facility, the commission provides support to partner countries on improving governance, legal and regulatory reforms and capacity building. third is sufficient capital. the commission has advanced considerably in generating more funding from banks and the private sector. it is estimated that, through blending, eur 3.7 billion allocated for energy cooperation in the current multiannual financing framework period will leverage investments of eur 15 to eur 20 billion, or even more. earlier this year, the electrification financing initiative, the so—called ‘electrify initiative’, which is an innovative mechanism to leverage investments, generated through its first invitation for applications 290 proposals requiring eur 800 million of financial support to leverage a potential total investment amount of eur 8.5 billion. this illustrates the significant contribution it can make to reaching universal access to energy. the proposed external investment plan would be one more important step in this direction. our vision cannot be implemented by governments and the private sector alone. there is also an important role for the participation of civil society, as organisations with a long presence and relationships of trust with local populations can be excellent partners in the energy sector. likewise, women need to play a major role in the integration of renewable energies in local economies and everyday life. a gender window has been created in ‘electrify’ to stimulate and exploit further this potential. there are still important risks impeding the investments which are necessary to meeting sustainable development goal no 7 – among others political instability, current fluctuations and insufficient market sizes. the commission is working together with all stakeholders to set up the right conditions in order to mitigate such risks. finally, let me address one specific issue. as regards the 11th edf national indicative programme for eritrea, the preparations for the implementation of a solar mini-grid programme with a pro-poor focus are underway. they are fully in line with the preconditions and principles defined by the member states at the edf committee meeting in november 2015. i am fully aware of the parliament’s concerns. let me reconfirm that no 11th edf projects in the energy sector will be presented as long as there is not a substantial project in support of the implementation of the un-led universal periodic review recommendations for eritrea under the governance sector. progress in the field of human rights will have to be seen for the european union to engage further in eritrea by committing funds under the 11th edf.
mr president, mr commissioner, a large part of the problem facing the world today, and the european union as a whole, is the problem of underdevelopment. the great disparity in underdeveloped countries causes poverty, misunderstanding and conflict. and one of the important elements in how we can and should reduce the development gap is, of course, energy policy. and so i welcome the initiative of my colleague, mr wente, and the committee on development of the european parliament, to raise this issue of access to energy in developing countries. i also thank commissioner mimica for his explanations of the difficulties the commission is facing and what the commission is trying to do in the future to implement this programme. it's a very ambitious agenda, to get not energy but electricity, which is the most elementary form of energy policy, to 500 million people by 2030, which in itself, even if it's an elementary, not a real approach to energy in all aspects of our operations, is a very ambitious goal and it's important that it's set. it is equally important that we in the european parliament ask ourselves how this objective has been achieved. this is just part of the overall development cooperation that the european union has with the world. it should be noted that the countries of the european union give more in development cooperation than the rest of the world combined, about 60 billion euros a year, and this is also because, as i said, to reduce the gap in development, or poverty, which is the cause of this crisis. it is important to note that the modern energy policy of the european union is essentially a new european policy because of the increasing difficulty of accessing energy, because of new requirements in terms of clean energy and it would be good if these new european policies in this form as modern and modern could be implemented in those countries that are energy poor. so, the main topic here is to bring electricity, but commissioner mimica also talked about other aspects of energy cooperation that are much more serious than just bringing electricity to a village in africa. a particularly important dimension of this project, of the whole idea, is the fact that it is directed towards africa, the continent that is in the most difficult situation, and especially the fact that half of these 30 projects concern precisely sub-saharan africa, our neighbourhood, a region exposed to instability and from which, in fact, large waves of migration threaten and come to europe. i therefore welcome the initiative of my colleague from the committee on development and the commission's efforts in this regard.
mr. president, i'm going to draw a parallel. you know very well where i come from - i come from croatia, from istria and you know that i have been involved in politics in croatia for a very long time, more than 20, about 25 years, that i have been active in istria and that i have done a lot for the rural development of istria. i can say that in the early 90s, when we started to build infrastructure in istria, electricity and water were the key things. people were leaving the countryside in istria, which is the most western and, by some measures, perhaps the richest region of croatia, for the cities by the sea. they simply did not want to live in a village without electricity or running water. that was only 25 years ago, which is not that long ago. i draw this parallel because we have the same situation a little bit more globally -- we have the fact that we have no energy and no water. if we don't have energy and water, we don't have development. so what do we have? migrants coming to europe. this symbolism, the parallel i want to draw is very simple, very mundane and we all understand it very well. what do you do in a situation like this? i am a strong advocate of synergy between all the key players on the world stage. and by that, i mean primarily us, the european union, which is the most generous of all partners on our planet anyway, but i also mean those who have interests in africa, like the united states, china, russia, and possibly someone else. i think that a sincere cooperation of all the key players should be the goal of everyone to save the situation in africa and to allow the people of africa to have access to energy, water and everything they need in key infrastructure projects. if we approach it in this way, we can solve a lot of the problems we face today. individual efforts will probably yield some results, but i'm sure not as a synergy, if it's politically possible, because europe is the only key political factor that can bring together perhaps some incompatible elements and make significant, rapid and powerful strides in africa. the other thing i would like to suggest is that maybe we shouldn't give too much money directly to african countries. maybe we should give more money, but indirectly. by investing in infrastructure where our european industry will ultimately have its goals and benefits, we can avoid something that is known to happen, which is the issue of corruption. in african countries, and unfortunately in european countries, it's all over the place, and we know it very well. i'm also inclined to talk about more resources to invest in energy in african countries, such as solar and wind energy, and not to do, as my last and third message, those mistakes that we made in developing energy in europe. so that the more we go to renewable energy sources and even those local sources that will not be networked. and that's a good way to develop rural areas in the african region. with these ideas, commissioner, i want to congratulate you on your efforts and work and i trust you will make sure that at least part of it is realized.
mr president, commissioner georgieva, i congratulate you on your excellent work at the european commission and wish you the best of luck in your future work. as for the imf audit, what i must emphasize in particular is that it is not easy to foresee all the circumstances that will occur and that is why we must have flexibility. this audit shows that we have the flexibility for what's happening to us -- from migration, to youth unemployment, to the crisis in agriculture, to the lack of investment, to investment in r&amp;d, to startups -- these are all things that we have to respond to. however, we must take account of the nature of the policies involved. the fact is that cohesion policy in the first years contracts a lot more and only then pays a lot more and we must not jeopardise the future payments needed for cohesion policy. the multiannual framework must therefore always be seen in the context of the nature of the policy financed by the eu budget.
mr president, the us-eu agreement on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of crimes should be supported as it complements existing agreements. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us privacy shield framework, in particular through the eu-us privacy shield, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu privacy shield. what this upgrade does is provide safeguards for data subjects and equal treatment for eu and us citizens in practical application. it's a qualitative step in the right direction. overcoming global challenges in the fight against crime cannot be achieved without rapid and efficient data exchange between partners. in this fight, we must be careful not to abuse it. in this context, i am particularly satisfied with the provisions of the agreement on the accuracy, relevance, up-to-date and complete nature of the data collected and on the period for which they are to be retained after processing.
mr president, the earthquake that hit italy this summer has not yet been repaired. the result is 290 dead, over 400 seriously injured. we estimate that about 100,000 people have been displaced or will have to be displaced. these are truly terrible consequences. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to stress that it is very important that we adopt the resolution we have proposed tomorrow, because we need to highlight the problems we face when we talk about the eu solidarity fund. we need to be more responsive and even involve the eib when we talk about things that need to be pre-financed or financed in terms of disasters like this that affect the areas we come from. as rapporteur for the adriatic-ionian macro-region, we have spoken about the specificity of that area. unfortunately, earthquakes are one of the special features of this area. all of italy and the balkans are very fertile areas. we know about historical earthquakes in dubrovnik, zagreb, skopje, greece, montenegro. we know about these problems and we have to do everything we can to prevent them because human lives, the world's cultural heritage, is priceless. we need to have a long-term policy to protect this world cultural heritage in the adriatic-ionian area from earthquakes. not to mention infrastructure and all the things that matter to people's lives. finally, i would like to express once again my deepest sympathy and condolences to all those who lost their lives in the earthquake in italy.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr president, the eu solidarity fund exists to provide financial support to member states and acceding states following major natural disasters. since its establishment until the end of july last year, a total of eur 4 billion has been granted and paid out on the basis of 72 applications from 24 countries. the commission has also proposed to amend the payment scheme to include the payment of the annual premium for the first year of the scheme. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the granting of such a guarantee. the scope is clarified and the prevention of damage from elementary disasters is encouraged. however, the fund's biggest problem is certainly the slow disbursement of appropriations. regardless of the reforms mentioned, it must be at least 10 weeks before the payment is made, as both the council and the parliament must give their consent. in practice, the deadline is longer. the commission also notes that the commission's decision to grant the loan to the bank of greece was based on the principle of the prudent private investor principle. there is a popular saying: "he who helps immediately helps twice". i consider that a stronger financial instrument is lacking to cover a larger share of the total cost of the damage. at present, this represents only 2 to 5% of the total damage. the rate of payment of the deposit should be increased from the current 10%. we will thus be able to show real solidarity and guarantee rapid assistance to people affected by major natural disasters. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection. this report and the resolution on the consequences of the catastrophic earthquakes in italy are a good set of proposals to help the affected citizens because they improve the commission's solutions. this concerns the duration of the aid disbursement, prevention, implementation of the ex ante conditionality in cohesion policy, synchronisation of existing eu instruments, transparency in the spending of allocated funds and cooperation between different decision-making levels. i thank my colleague cico for his good cooperation and i invite you to adopt the report tomorrow.
mr. president, the advance payment for the mobilization of the solidarity fund was introduced shortly after i became a member of this house and i really supported it wholeheartedly. the commission has also proposed that the amount of the financial contribution be increased by eur 100000000 to cover the costs of the operation of the emergency fund. just before the 2014 european elections, croatia was hit by terrible floods, leaving many people without their homes and crops. their very existence was directly threatened, and the state responded as quickly as it could. but not fast enough, in my opinion, and not overly effective. the croatian example is the best example of the scope for upgrading this mechanism, namely direct financial but above all logistical assistance to member states while a humanitarian disaster is taking place on their territory. any other help is welcome, of course, but it will always be perceived as overdue and inadequate.
madam president, commissioner, croatia today feels like a kind of garbage can. because products are coming to croatia that are 40 years old and they want to sell. i'm talking specifically about the meat industry case. citizens in croatia are very concerned about their health and i want to warn you that it is obvious that the system that has been established in europe in many countries is not working properly. there is no quality control. the so-called rapid alert system for food and feed is apparently not working properly in some countries. we are concerned citizens, we are concerned about our health and we want to make it clear that those who want to poison us, those who poison eu citizens, must face heavy penalties or, ultimately, close down their own production.
written. the situation in the democratic republic of the congo is extremely serious and threatens to increase political instability due to the postponement of elections by the current president kabila. civil society organisations have repeatedly pointed to a deterioration in the situation of human rights and freedom of expression, and to an increase in violence. i believe that political instability is harmful primarily to the population, and that it is worsening the situation of extreme poverty that has long characterized the congo. i believe that dialogue should be developed and a peaceful joint solution between the authorities and the opposition found, and that international standards and agreements on fundamental rights should be respected. the european union can certainly provide the appropriate tools and instruments to launch pro-democratic processes and support human rights defenders.
written. - i support this report. in the absence of a clear legal basis allowing member states to determine that goods are presented to customs, a situation has arisen in which their duty to carry out effective customs controls is hampered (they cannot accurately collect import duties and other charges, apply non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls and identify risks for goods arriving at their seaports or airports). the current proposal seeks to correct these shortcomings and to ensure equal treatment of goods and to restore the legal basis that already existed in the previous customs code.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air, as it corrects certain defects found during manufacture and ensures equal treatment of goods. in addition, the amendment of article 136 aims to restore the legal basis that existed in the previous customs code and i therefore support this report.
the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 952/2013, the competent authorities of the member states shall, in accordance with article 136 in its current form, have no legal basis for applying the provisions relating to the lodging of an entry summary declaration or the waiting for approval before unloading or transhipping the goods. the provisions of this regulation shall, for the purposes of this agreement, be read with the following adaptations: in the absence of a clear legal basis enabling member states to determine that goods are to be presented to customs, a situation has arisen in which the performance of their duties is made more difficult. this proposal to amend article 136 aims to correct these shortcomings, to ensure equal treatment of goods and to restore the legal basis that already existed in the previous customs code, which is why i supported this report.
written. i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 laying down the union customs code as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air. since the competent authorities in the member states currently lack a legal basis for applying the provisions relating to the presentation of the notification of arrival of a ship or aircraft, as well as the presentation of goods to customs upon unloading or transhipment, and there is no clear legal basis allowing member states to determine that goods are to be presented to customs authorities, a situation has arisen in which the performance of their duty of effective customs supervision is hampered in that they are unable to accurately collect import duties and other charges or to apply non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls, to identify risks for goods arriving at their seaports or airports. the provisions of this regulation shall, for the purposes of this agreement, be read with the following adaptations: the current proposal to amend article 136 aims to correct these shortcomings and to ensure equal treatment of goods and to restore the legal basis that already existed in the previous customs code.
written. ‒ this proposal aims to ensure the effective application of the provisions of the union customs code by amending article 136 of the ccc, the text of which does not provide a clear legal basis for the requirement to present goods to customs authorities, without which customs supervision of non-union goods and goods whose status must be proven is sometimes difficult. the commission should be able to impose a duty on the ports and airports concerned, in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 26 of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council, to ensure that the customs authorities of the ports and airports concerned are able to ensure that the goods are transported in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in this regulation. the commission notes that the contested article does not provide a legal basis for the relevant authorities of the member states to carry out many necessary procedures and weakens the effectiveness of their customs supervision, since they cannot accurately collect duties, apply non-fiscal measures or identify risks to goods entering their territory. the proposed amendment aims to correct those shortcomings and to ensure equal treatment of goods. it is necessary to ensure the promotion of legitimate trade, with the existence of appropriate customs supervision and the fight against fraud.
written. ‒ given the shortcomings of article 136 of the current version of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the customs code of the union, according to which member states do not have a legal basis to control goods that have temporarily left the customs territory of the union while moving directly between two points in that territory by sea or air without stopping outside the union, i consider it urgently necessary to support this report in order to correct these shortcomings. i believe that this regulation will enable member states to carry out their customs control duties effectively in terms of identifying the risks of goods entering their countries, sanitary controls and the collection of import duties. i consider this regulation to be very important in preventing the smuggling of weapons, narcotics, exotic animals, food, etc.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the union customs code for goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air as it should clarify the legal situation on the entry of goods into the european union. the current legislative solution does not have a clear legal basis allowing member states to determine that goods are to be presented to customs. the commission has also found that the measures in force in the prc are not sufficient to ensure the effective enforcement of the anti-dumping measures in force. the proposal to amend article 136 should provide a legal basis to correct the positive legal loopholes and ensure equal treatment of goods.
the commission has also concluded that the provisions of the union customs code and its subsequent acts are not fully applicable to the union. the relevant authorities in the member states do not have a legal basis, in accordance with article 136, in its current form, for applying the various provisions applicable in the specific case of goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union while moving directly between two points in that territory by sea or air without stopping outside the union. in the absence of a legal basis allowing member states to determine that goods are to be presented to customs authorities, a situation has arisen in which the exercise of the duty of effective customs supervision has been hampered in such a way that they are unable to accurately collect import duties and other charges, to apply non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls accurately and to identify risks for goods arriving at their ports or airports. the current proposal seeks to correct these shortcomings and to ensure equal treatment of goods and to give a legal basis which already existed in the previous customs code, which is why i supported this report and voted in favour.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 laying down the union customs code as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air. in the absence of a clear legal basis enabling member states to determine that goods are to be presented to customs authorities, a situation has arisen in which their duty of effective customs supervision is hampered in that they are unable to: accurately collect import duties and other charges, accurately apply non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls, identify risks for goods arriving at their ports or airports. the provisions of this regulation shall, for the purposes of this agreement, be read with the following adaptations: the current proposal to amend article 136 aims to correct these shortcomings and to ensure equal treatment of goods and to restore the legal basis that already existed in the previous customs code.
written. ‒ i support this report, which is technically a proposal to postpone the implementation date to 1 january 2018, in order to allow the document to be adopted with stronger investor protection clauses.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for packaged retail investment products and investment insurance products as regards its date of application as it adopts the position at first reading in question. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the market for retail investment products and investment insurance products, in particular on the market for retail investment products and investment insurance products.
written. regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council introduced a series of measures to improve investor protection and restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector. it requires the issuer of packaged retail investment products and investment insurance products to produce a key information document. on 14 september 2016, the european parliament objected to the delegated regulation adopted by the commission on 30 june 2016 and, together with the large majority of member states, called for the postponement of the date of application of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 to 1 january 2016. the 12-month delay will provide the parties involved with an additional period to comply with the new requirements, which is why i supported this report.
written. i support the postponement of the date of application of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on documents for packaged retail investment products and investment insurance products. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the definition of the concept of 'investment products' and the definition of the concept of 'investment products'. the existing disclosures of information to retail investors on such priips are inconsistent and often do not help retail investors to compare different products or to understand their features. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not provided sufficient evidence to support their claim that the measures were in line with the market economy investor principle. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the investor protection measures in the member states. different approaches to disclosure of information related to priips prevent the creation of a level playing field for different priip issuers and those advising on or selling those products, thereby distorting competition and leading to unequal levels of investor protection in the union. such diversity constitutes an obstacle to the establishment and smooth functioning of the internal market. the improvement of the transparency of priips offered to retail investors is an important measure for their protection and a prerequisite for restoring retail investor confidence in the financial market, in particular in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 was adopted on 26 november 2014 to improve the protection of retail investors investing in packaged retail investment products and investment insurance products. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the financial services sector is facing a significant increase in the number of new entrants. the issuer of packaged retail investment products and investment insurance products shall be required to produce a key information document. the authority has also been given the power to adopt regulatory technical standards specifying the elements of the key information document. the commission delegated regulation of june 2016 was rejected by the european parliament and invited the commission to review the provisions on multiple-choice priips and the provisions on best-case scenarios and the understanding alert. together with the council, parliament also requested a delay in the date of application of the regulation as smooth application of the regulation is not possible as long as technical standards are not in place. the new date of application of the regulation is 1 january 2018 and this one-year delay will allow the parties involved an additional period to comply with the new requirements.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ i agree with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 as it presents a series of measures to improve investor protection and restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing transparency in the retail investor market. the recent financial crisis has highlighted the shortcomings and irregularities in the financial sector, which have caused the biggest losses to small investors. i believe that this regulation will increase the transparency of banks and investment funds to their customers and investors. i support this regulation because it will reduce information asymmetry and reduce risk for investors to gain insight into key information in making financial decisions.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for packaged investment products for retail investors and investment firms for products as regards its date of application. i consider that the proposed amendment which proposes to replace the second paragraph of article 34 of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 with the following applies from 1 january 2018 leaves adequate time to allow the parties involved an additional deadline to comply with the new requirements.
written. ‒ the european union solidarity fund enables the eu to respond to major natural disasters and to show solidarity with the affected areas and countries, and is a significant source of funding for local and regional governments to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that such a fund is absolutely necessary, especially in times of great climate change which have led to a significant increase in the number of natural disasters. as a representative from croatia, a country that has been awarded financial assistance for the rehabilitation of the consequences of natural disasters four times, most recently in 2014 following the catastrophic floods that affected the eastern part of slavonia, i welcome any improvement in the functioning of the eusf that will speed up the process of obtaining assistance itself and improve the means of communication and cooperation with local and regional authorities. the commission notes that the financial corrections provided for in the 2014 budget are in line with the principles of sound financial management and the principle of sound financial management. such situations, in which victims feel forgotten between the emergency intervention and the arrival of the fund, should be prevented at all costs in the future.
written. ‒ i support the postponement of the date of application of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on documents for packaged retail investment products and investment insurance products as regards its date of application. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the definition of the criteria for the selection of the priips. the existing disclosures of information to retail investors on such priips are inconsistent and often do not help retail investors to compare different products or understand their features. accordingly, small investors often invested without understanding the associated risks and costs and, at times, suffered unforeseen losses. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the investor protection measures in the member states. different approaches to disclosure of information relating to priips prevent the creation of a level playing field for different priip issuers and those advising on or selling those products, thereby distorting competition and leading to unequal levels of investor protection in the union. such diversity constitutes an obstacle to the establishment and smooth functioning of the internal market. the improvement of the transparency of priips offered to retail investors is an important measure for their protection and a prerequisite for restoring retail investors' confidence in the financial market, in particular in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
written. ‒ i support this report on the agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of kiribati when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the joint interpretative declaration is annexed to the treaty.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver (12092/2015 c8-0253/2016 2015/0200(nle)), giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the republic of kiribati to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the republic of kiribati has made significant progress in respecting its international human rights obligations and in achieving internationally agreed goals, such as the millennium development goals.
written. ‒ relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati are governed by the cotonou partnership agreement. this agreement allows citizens of the european union and the republic of kiribati to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati and is of major political importance within the framework of the cotonou agreement. it also further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. since i consider that the republic of kiribati does not pose any threat in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security, i have supported this recommendation.
written. i supported the draft decision on the conclusion of the eu-republic of kiribati agreement with a view to deepening the eu-republic of kiribati relations. it strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on a range of issues, such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement is expected to have a positive impact by facilitating travel for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and stimulating the development of the tourism sector, which is very important as the economy of kiribati is primarily based on the services sector, which accounts for 66% of gdp, and the agriculture and fisheries sectors, which account for 25% of gdp. on the political level, the government of the republic of kiribati has made great progress in respecting its international human rights obligations and in achieving internationally agreed goals, such as the millennium development goals. in this regard, that agreement constitutes a positive sign of support for kiribati and allows for a balanced, regular and in-depth political dialogue on issues that remain a priority for the union. the visa waiver agreement not only enables citizens to derive full and tangible benefits from the kiribati-eu partnership, but also to actively participate in it and travel more easily at lower costs.
written. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of an effort to deepen relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati and we must also bear in mind its great political importance in the framework of the cotonou agreement. the government of the republic of kiribati should be commended for the progress made in respecting its international human rights obligations and in achieving its internationally established objectives. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not complied with the requirements of the cypriot legislation. the agreement will therefore also have a positive economic impact by simplifying travel for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and developing the tourism sector. this strengthening of economic and cultural relations will further intensify political dialogue on issues that remain a priority for the union. in terms of mobility, kiribati poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. the agreement is further evidence of our commitment to the region to achieve a better partnership and is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together. the citizens of both regions will be able to derive full and tangible benefits from the acp-eu partnership. i want to emphasize the need for complete reciprocity in visa waiver and thus equal treatment of all citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati and is of great political importance within the framework of the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for the visa-free movement of citizens of the european union and of the republic of kiribati to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is granted to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official or special passports) who are not travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. visa waiver is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together. i accept this agreement as it is of great political importance and as it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the commission has also received information from the authorities of the republic of kiribati on the number of persons who have been granted asylum in the republic of kiribati.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the agreement between the european union and kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati and is of major political importance within the framework of the cotonou agreement. it also further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and the republic of kiribati to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official or special passports) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity.
the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati proposes to abolish short-stay visas for citizens of the european union and citizens of the republic of kiribati travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. the visa waiver will apply to a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period and will apply to all categories of travellers. i believe that this agreement will have a positive impact on the economy of kiribati and contribute to strengthening economic and cultural relations between the european union and kiribati. the republic of kiribati has made significant progress in the area of human rights and the millennium development goals and this agreement allows for the continuation of a balanced dialogue. in view of the experience of the last few years and the fact that the citizens of this country do not represent a threat in terms of illegal migration or migration flows, nor in terms of security and public order, i supported the conclusion of this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period of first entry between the european union and kiribati. the increase in mobility to and from the european union must be one of the main priorities of european policy at international level. this derogation is a precondition for the development of future relations between the european union and kiribati. the abolition of short-stay visas has a positive effect on the economy and citizens. the increase in economic activity, but also the acquisition of new experiences through travel, are the main effects for both parties to the agreement. all countries applying and developing the schengen acquis which are not member states of the european union should also conclude agreements with the state of kiribati in order to harmonise their visa regime with the european union system.
written. ‒ i support this report on the agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the solomon islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the joint interpretative declaration is annexed to the treaty.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver (09785/2016 c8-0422/2016 2016/0096 ((nle))), giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. relations between the european union and the solomon islands are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and of the solomon islands to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european union is a partner of civil society in the solomon islands on democracy and human rights, the implementation of the national development strategy and enhanced political dialogue.
written. ‒ relations between the european union and the solomon islands are governed by the cotonou agreement, and this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver underlines its political importance. this agreement will contribute to improving trade relations, which are currently limited but have the potential to develop. the visa waiver is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together. i believe that the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to travel more easily and at lower cost, and i therefore supported this recommendation.
written. i supported the draft decision on the conclusion of the eu-solomon islands visa waiver agreement as it is important for further deepening relations between the member states and the solomon islands. the union's policy dialogue with the solomon islands is focused on the protection of their vulnerable environment, in particular in relation to climate change. the agreement strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue, and is expected to have a positive impact on investment and development in the tourism sector. the solomon islands economy is based on the agriculture sector, which accounts for 50% of gdp, and the services sector, which accounts for 40% of gdp, with a gradually developing tourism sector. in terms of development cooperation, the main focus of the european union in relation to the solomon islands since the 1990s has been on sustainable rural development and human resource development. although the eu's trade relations with the solomon islands are very limited, there is potential for their development. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including the solomon islands. in this context, this agreement confirms the efforts of the european union to strengthen the partnership with that country.
written. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is of major political importance within the cotonou agreement and is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the republic of solomon islands. the eu's trade relations with the solomon islands are currently very limited, but the potential for their development exists. the agreement will thus have a positive economic impact as it will facilitate travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and develop the tourism sector. this strengthening of economic and cultural relations will further intensify political dialogue on issues that remain a priority for the union. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the application of the principle of proportionality. the agreement is further evidence of our commitment to the region to achieve a better partnership and is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together. the citizens of both regions will be able to derive full and tangible benefits from the acp-eu partnership. i want to emphasize the need for complete reciprocity in visa waiver and thus equal treatment of all citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the solomon islands and is of great political importance within the framework of the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for the visa-free movement of citizens of the european union and of the solomon islands to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is granted to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official or special passports) who are not travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. the visa waiver is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together. i accept this agreement as it is of great political importance and as it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the commission notes that the government of the solomon islands has not provided any information on the number of persons who have been granted asylum in the solomon islands.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the solomon islands and is of great political importance. it also further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the eu and solomon islands when travelling to a location of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period.
written. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver could have a positive impact by simplifying travel for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and stimulating tourism development. this agreement is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the solomon islands in terms of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue. given that negotiations are underway on the conclusion of a comprehensive partnership agreement between the european union and fourteen countries in the pacific region, including the solomon islands, the conclusion of this agreement will confirm the efforts to strengthen the eu-solomon islands partnership. as no arrest of solomon islands nationals for illegal stay in the eu has been recorded in recent years and no asylum applications have been lodged by solomon islands nationals, it is clear that solomon islands does not pose a threat to illegal migration, i supported the abolition of visas for stays of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
written. ‒ i support the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period of first entry between the european union and the solomon islands. the increase in mobility to and from the european union must be one of the main priorities of european policy at international level. this derogation is a precondition for the development of future relations between the european union and the solomon islands. the abolition of short-stay visas has a positive effect on the economy and citizens. the increase in economic activity, but also the acquisition of new experiences through travel, are the main effects for both parties to the agreement. all countries applying and developing the schengen acquis which are not member states of the european union should also conclude agreements with the state of the solomon islands in order to harmonise their visa regime with the european union system.
written. ‒ i support this report on the agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the federated states of micronesia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the joint interpretative declaration is annexed to the treaty.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver (09780/2016 c8-0388/2016 2016/0098(nle)) giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the federated states of micronesia to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the federated states of micronesia is a democratic republic under a political system fully committed to the protection of human rights guaranteed by its constitution. the eu-federated states of micronesia political dialogue focuses on the protection of their fragile environment, in particular in relation to climate change, and the protection of human rights and gender issues.
written. ‒ relations between the eu and the federated states of micronesia have been growing since 2000, when the cotonou agreement was signed. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver can further strengthen economic and cultural relations, business-to-business cooperation and trade relations between the two parties. since i consider this agreement to be useful, i have supported this recommendation.
written. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies the political dialogue between the european union and the federated states of micronesia. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the concrete result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia and has a high political weight within the framework of the cotonou agreement. it also further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the economy of the federated states of micronesia is primarily based on the services sector, which accounts for 74% of its gdp, and a booming tourism sector. although the european union's trade relations with the federated states of micronesia are currently very limited, there is potential for their development. the european union is currently negotiating a comprehensive partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including the federated states of micronesia. the liberalisation of the visa system will facilitate travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and strengthen economic links between enterprises. this agreement will also stimulate the development of tourism and give a new impetus to the economy as a whole.
written. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is of major political importance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia. the pacific democracy is fully committed to the protection of human rights and we have good communication when it comes to protecting their fragile environment, especially in relation to climate change, but in the field of trade, the eu's relations with the federated states of micronesia are still very limited and the potential for their development needs to be exploited. the agreement will thus have a positive economic impact as it will facilitate travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and develop the tourism sector. this strengthening of economic and cultural relations will further intensify political dialogue on issues of priority for the union. in terms of mobility, the federated states of micronesia do not pose any threat in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. the agreement is further evidence of our commitment to the region to achieve a better partnership and is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together. the citizens of both regions will be able to derive full and tangible benefits from the acp-eu partnership. i want to emphasize the need for complete reciprocity in visa waiver and thus equal treatment of all citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia and is of great political importance within the framework of the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for the visa-free movement of citizens of the european union and of the federated states of micronesia to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is granted to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official or special passports) who are not travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. the liberalisation of the visa system will facilitate travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and strengthen economic links between enterprises. i accept this agreement as it is of great political importance and as it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the commission has also received information from the authorities of the federated states of micronesia that the authorities of the federated states of micronesia have not provided any information on the status of the persons concerned.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia and is of great political importance. it also further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this allows visa-free travel for citizens of the eu and the federated states of micronesia when travelling to the location of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period.
written. this agreement shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the official journal of the european union. the liberalisation of the visa system will facilitate travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and strengthen economic links between businesses, and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. according to the available data, no arrest of nationals of the federated states of micronesia for illegal stay in the european union was recorded during 2014 and 2015, and no entry ban at the external borders or return decision was issued for nationals of micronesia. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the measures taken by the united kingdom in relation to the measures in force in the united kingdom. as visa-free travel is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together, i supported this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the agreement on the abolition of the requirement to hold a visa for a short stay of up to 90 days within a period of 180 days of first entry between the european union and the federated states of micronesia. the increase in mobility to and from the european union must be one of the main priorities of european policy at international level. this exemption is a prerequisite for the development of future relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia. the abolition of short-stay visas has a positive effect on the economy and citizens. the increase in economic activity, but also the acquisition of new experiences through travel, are the main effects for both parties to the agreement. all countries applying and developing the schengen acquis which are not member states of the european union should also conclude agreements with micronesia in order to harmonise their visa regime with the european union system.
written. ‒ i support this statement on the agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and tuvalu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the joint interpretative declaration is annexed to the treaty.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver (09764/2016 c8-0268/2016 2016/0100(nle)) giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. the relations between the european union and tuvalu are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of tuvalu to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the agreement is also a positive sign of support for tuvalu and allows for a balanced, regular and thorough political dialogue on these issues, which remain a priority for the eu.
written. ‒ the report notes that the visa waiver agreement will have a positive impact, as it will simplify travel for entrepreneurs and facilitate investment and tourism development. the commission will also continue to support the development of the tuvalu region through the development of the tuvalu-based network of european and international airports. the visa waiver agreement is a testament to europe's commitment to the region, with the aim of establishing an even stronger partnership. this is a positive sign of support for tuvalu which will allow for political dialogue on many issues, which is why i supported this recommendation.
written. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of an effort to deepen relations between the european union and tuvalu, which is of great political importance in the framework of the cotonou agreement, and which further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement will have a positive impact by facilitating travel for entrepreneurs and facilitating investment and tourism development. the economy of tuvalu is based primarily on services (more than 60% of gdp), including internet-related services, including the sale of licenses to use the .tv domain name, which is an important source of revenue for the state. the agriculture and fisheries sector accounts for more than 20% of gdp. the issuing of fishing licences is an important source of revenue for the state. tourism is relatively limited, with less than 2,000 tourists a year coming mostly from other pacific nations. tuvalu also remains dependent on international development assistance, and there are still large differences in economic development between the islands. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific states, including tuvalu. the visa waiver agreement is further evidence of our commitment to the region in order to establish a stronger partnership.
written. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is of major political importance within the cotonou agreement and is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and tuvalu. the pacific democracy is fully committed to protecting human rights and we have good communication when it comes to protecting their fragile environment, especially in relation to climate change, but in the field of trade, the eu's relations with tuvalu are still very limited and their potential for development needs to be exploited. the agreement will thus have a positive economic impact as it will facilitate travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and develop the tourism sector. this strengthening of economic and cultural relations will further intensify political dialogue on issues of priority for the union. in terms of mobility, tuvalu poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. the agreement is further evidence of our commitment to the region to achieve a better partnership and is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together. the citizens of both regions will be able to derive full and tangible benefits from the acp-eu partnership. i want to emphasize the need for complete reciprocity in visa waiver and thus equal treatment of all citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
the eu-tuvalu bilateral agreement was signed on 1 july 2016 in brussels. the agreement is provisionally applied pending the approval of the european parliament. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and tuvalua to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is granted to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official or special passports) who are not travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. the commission has also received information from the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (unoca) that the number of persons in need of international protection in the philippines is increasing. i accept this agreement as it is of great political importance and as it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and tuvalu and is of great political importance. it also further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and citizens of tuvalu to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period.
written. ‒ the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the abolition of short-stay visas will simplify travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and stimulate tourism. the visa waiver shall cover all categories of persons when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for stays of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. the european union is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific states, including tuvalu, which is another step in strengthening the partnership between the european union and tuvalu, in particular in terms of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues. in addition, according to the available data, the refusal rate of visas for citizens of tuvalu and other pacific states is very low and migration flows from tuvalu are directed towards australia and new zealand. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish that the cypriot authorities have been able to establish. that's why i supported this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the agreement on the abolition of the requirement to hold a visa for short stays of up to 90 days within a period of 180 days of first entry between the european union and tuvalu. the increase in mobility to and from the european union must be one of the main priorities of european policy at international level. the eu and tuvalu shall cooperate in the implementation of this agreement. the abolition of short-stay visas has a positive effect on the economy and citizens. the increase in economic activity, but also the acquisition of new experiences through travel, are the main effects for both parties to the agreement. all countries applying and developing the schengen acquis which are not member states of the european union should also conclude agreements with tuvalu in order to harmonise their visa regime with the european union system.
written. ‒ i support this report on the agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the marshall islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the joint interpretative declaration is annexed to the treaty.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver (09775/2016 c8-0252/2016 2016/0103 ((nle))), giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the republic of the marshall islands to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the union's policy dialogue with the marshall islands shall focus on the protection of their sensitive environment, in particular in relation to climate change, on the one hand, and the protection of human rights and gender issues, on the other.
written. ‒ this agreement would simplify travel for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and stimulate tourism development. it abolishes visas for all categories of persons not travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. it also further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues. i consider that the visa waiver agreement confirms the union's efforts to strengthen the partnership with this country, and i therefore supported this recommendation.
written. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the concrete outcome of the efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands and has a high political weight within the framework of the cotonou agreement. it also further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement could have a positive impact by facilitating travel for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and stimulating tourism development. the marshall islands' economy is primarily based on the service sector and to some extent on fishing and agriculture. the republic of the marshall islands has few natural resources, and imports far outstrip exports. the united states is by far the largest contributor to the republic of the marshall islands' national budget under the compact of free association. although the eu's trade relations with the republic of the marshall islands are very limited, there is scope for their development. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including the republic of the marshall islands. in this regard, this agreement makes significant progress in establishing a more intensive and regular political dialogue and economic development of the republic of the marshall islands.
written. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is of major political importance within the cotonou agreement and is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands. the pacific presidential democracy is fully committed to protecting human rights and has a constructive dialogue with the eu on protecting their fragile environment, especially in relation to climate change. however, in the field of trade, the eu's relations with the republic of the marshall islands remain very limited. the agreement will therefore have a positive economic impact by facilitating travel for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and developing the tourism sector. this strengthening of economic and cultural relations will further intensify political dialogue on issues of priority for the union. the republic of the marshall islands is a member of the european union and is a party to the convention on the rights of the child. the agreement is further evidence of our commitment to the region to achieve a better partnership and is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together. the citizens of both regions will be able to derive full and tangible benefits from the acp-eu partnership. i want to emphasize the need for complete reciprocity in visa waiver and thus equal treatment of all citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
the eu and the republic of the marshall islands signed the agreement on the establishment of a joint committee on the protection of the marine environment and the protection of the marine environment in geneva on 27 june 2016. the agreement has since been applied provisionally pending the approval of the european parliament. the agreement provides for the visa-free movement of citizens of the european union and of the marshall islands to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is granted to all categories of persons (bearing ordinary, diplomatic, official or special passports) who are not travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. the commission should also be able to verify whether the conditions for the issuing of visas are met. i accept this agreement as it is of great political importance and as it further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the agreement between the european union and the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of efforts to deepen relations between the european union and the marshall islands and is of great political importance. it also further strengthens economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and the republic of the marshall islands is hereby approved.
written. ‒ a bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands abolishes visas for stays of up to 90 days in any 180-day period for all persons travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. this will facilitate business travel, strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. pending the conclusion of negotiations on the comprehensive economic partnership agreement with the pacific states, this agreement marks another step in the strengthening of the partnership between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands. since this country poses no threat in terms of illegal migration, security or public order, and the visa waiver is an important factor in bringing european citizens and pacific citizens closer together, i supported this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period of first entry between the european union and the marshall islands. the increase in mobility to and from the european union must be one of the main priorities of european policy at international level. this derogation is a precondition for the development of future relations between the european union and the marshall islands. the abolition of short-stay visas has a positive effect on the economy and citizens. the increase in economic activity, but also the acquisition of new experiences through travel, are the main effects for both parties to the agreement. all countries applying and developing the schengen acquis which are not member states of the european union should also conclude agreements with the republic of the marshall islands in order to harmonise their visa regime with the european union system.
written. ‒ i support this report on the european union solidarity fund (eusf), which was set up in response to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with regions affected by disasters. since 2002, it's been used for 72 accidents, covering a variety of catastrophic events, including floods, fires, earthquakes, storms...
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the european union solidarity fund because it is one of the most concrete and tangible manifestations of the support that the european union can give to local communities. it is an important source of funding for local and regional governments to mitigate the effects of natural disasters. the unpredictability of disasters not only brings hardship to the affected population, but also raises the question of the speed of action of public authorities faced with unforeseen costs, therefore it is of the utmost importance to guarantee maximum transparency in the allocation, management and implementation of the european union solidarity fund.
written. ‒ following the tragic floods of 2002, the european union established the solidarity fund, which serves as a direct expression of the union's solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters, and also applies to the acceding countries. the solidarity fund may assist member states where the total damage directly caused by elementary disasters exceeds eur 3 billion or 0,6% of the gross national income of the state, and there are also provisions for assistance in the event of minor regional disasters. the report aims to highlight the importance of the speed of the fund's intervention, the need for a policy of prevention and the need for complementarity between the fund and other european instruments, in particular cohesion policy. the rapporteur stresses that better cooperation between the different levels of decision-making can improve the transparency of the fund. i believe that the mechanisms for cooperation and complementarity in the work of the fund need to be improved, and i have therefore supported this report.
since its establishment in 2002, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) has proved to be a very useful and important instrument for mitigating the consequences of natural disasters by providing financial assistance to national governments and regional and local authorities in affected areas. in 14 years, member states have shown solidarity through this fund by assisting in 69 elementary disasters of different types and scales across europe, with 24 countries assisted by receiving assistance totalling eur 3,7 billion. over time, some adjustments and changes have been needed. the deadline for requesting aid has been extended to allow member states 18 months to use the funds from the date of payment, an advance of 10% has been introduced and some vague provisions have been made much clearer, all in line with numerous requests made over the years by the european parliament and local authorities. as this fund is the quickest way to help affected countries in the event of a disaster, i consider it important to consider, in the light of future reforms, the possibility of increasing the advance threshold from 10% to 15% and of reducing the deadlines for processing applications from six to four weeks - so that the necessary assistance can reach the affected areas as soon as possible.
written. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is an instrument to finance emergency operations following major natural disasters and regional emergencies in the eu, as well as in countries negotiating accession. it's used for a variety of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, wildfires, storms, and the recent drought. the fund has so far mobilised a total of eur 3,8 billion for more than 70 disasters in 24 member states and accession countries. the number of disasters in the eu has increased significantly due to climate change and is becoming an increasingly serious problem, and therefore it is necessary to insist on a flexible instrument to provide adequate and rapid assistance to citizens affected by major disasters. in the light of future reforms, the commission is invited to consider the possibility of increasing the advance threshold from 10% to 15% and of reducing the deadlines for processing applications from six to four weeks. the possibility of setting an eligibility threshold for regional natural disasters of 1% of regional gdp should also be considered. we need to work on preventing potential disasters, creating opportunities for faster responses after disasters, and on greater transparency and better cooperation between different levels of decision-making. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 as regards the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established in response to the catastrophic floods that hit central europe during the summer of 2012. in the light of future reforms, the commission is invited to consider the possibility of increasing the advance threshold from 10% to 15% and of reducing the deadlines for processing applications from six weeks to four weeks. the commission is also invited to consider setting an eligibility threshold for regional natural disasters of 1% of regional gdp and to take into account the levels of socio-economic development of the affected regions when assessing the application. i accept this report because it is very important that victims of natural disasters receive immediate assistance in the quickest and most efficient way possible, because for them the first moments after a disaster are the most existentially difficult.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the european union solidarity fund. the european union solidarity fund is one of the most concrete and tangible instruments of support that the european union provides to the member states. since its creation in 2002, the fund has been an important instrument for funding local authorities and has provided significant support to mitigate the effects of natural disasters across europe. the resolution calls on the member states to optimise the use of existing eu funds, in particular the european structural and investment funds, for investments in disaster prevention and recalls the importance of developing synergies between the different funds and union policies. i particularly support the call for the countries concerned, i.e. the beneficiary countries, to take all measures designed to prevent disasters and to restore the affected areas in a sustainable manner.
written. ‒ the european union solidarity fund enables the eu to respond to major natural disasters, to show solidarity with the affected areas and countries, and is also a significant source of funding for local and regional governments to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that such a fund is absolutely necessary, especially in times of great climate change, which has led to a significant increase in the number of natural disasters. as a representative from croatia, a country that has been awarded financial assistance for the rehabilitation of the consequences of natural disasters four times, most recently in 2014 following the catastrophic floods that affected the eastern part of slavonia, i welcome any improvement in the functioning of the eusf that will speed up the process of obtaining assistance and improve the means of communication and cooperation with local and regional authorities. the commission notes that the financial corrections provided for in the 2014 budget are in line with the principles of sound financial management and the principle of sound financial management. such situations, in which victims feel forgotten between the emergency intervention and the arrival of the fund, should be prevented at all costs in the future.
written. ‒ i support this memorandum of understanding which aims to establish a framework of principles and measures for data protection when personal data are transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between eu member states and the us. the duration of the contract is indefinite.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences with the treaties because that is the position of the alde group which i have decided to follow in this vote.
written. the 2009 final report concluded that an international agreement binding the eu and the us to apply harmonised common data protection principles to transatlantic data transfers in the field of law enforcement would be the best solution. the purpose of the agreement is to ensure a high level of protection of personal information and to enhance cooperation between the united states and the european union in relation to the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. the working party on data protection, in its statement of 26 october 2016, pointed out that certain clarifications may be necessary to ensure that the level of protection of personal data provided by the framework agreement is fully in line with eu law. in order to ensure that the data subject is able to exercise his or her right of access to the data, the controller should be able to request the data subject to provide the data subject with a copy of the data subject's personal data. i supported the motion for a resolution because i consider that there is legal uncertainty as to the compatibility of the agreement with the provisions of the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and that it is necessary to seek the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties.
written. i consider it important to point out that the umbrella agreement does not provide a legal basis for transfers of personal data. the legal basis for data transfers is found in existing eu-us agreements, bilateral agreements between member states and the us, or in national laws regulating the exchange of personal data (e.g. international agreements on passenger name record, on the terrorist finance tracking program, or on mutual legal assistance). the data protection board shall be composed of representatives of the member states and of the commission. the agreement does not cover exchanges of data between national safety authorities, as they are not within the competence of the union. the privacy shield is a global agreement between the united states and the european union that protects the privacy of individuals and businesses, including by ensuring that they are protected from unauthorized access to their personal information. in the light of the foregoing, i do not consider it necessary to request the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility of the envisaged agreement with the treaties and have therefore not supported this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the motion for a resolution requesting the opinion of the court on the compatibility of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences with the treaties, nor the motion for a resolution requesting the opinion of the court on the compatibility of the proposed agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences with the treaties. i consider that seeking the opinion of the court would unnecessarily prolong the procedure for the conclusion of the agreement and that the assessment of the european parliament's legal services was correct in finding that article 16, in conjunction with article 218 (6) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), constitutes the proper legal basis of the proposal.
written. ‒ this agreement guarantees additional protection of personal data when it is transferred and processed for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting and initiating criminal activities, such as terrorism. the commission has also concluded that the transfer of personal data to third parties is not in line with the principles of the privacy shield framework. i voted in favour because i believe that this agreement provides a major breakthrough in the protection of private data when it is transferred between the european union and the united states, without interfering with the work of the judicial and police authorities. the above will be subject to regular checks, the results of which will be publicly visible.
written. ‒ i support this memorandum of understanding which aims to establish a framework of principles and measures for data protection when personal data are transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between eu member states and the us. the duration of the contract is indefinite.
written. ‒ i abstained from voting on the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, because there are certain legal aspects that are not clear and the level of protection provided for by the agreement is allegedly not fully in line with eu rules. therefore, i followed the alde group's position, which is based on caution in giving consent to the conclusion of the agreement in question.
written. ‒ in 2011, the commission opened negotiations with the us on the protection of personal information in relation to criminal offences as part of the umbrella agreement. the purpose of this agreement is to ensure a high level of protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, in particular the right to privacy in the processing of personal data. the agreement does not provide a legal basis for the transfer of personal data, which is found in existing bilateral agreements between member states and the united states, but it complements the protection of those agreements and harmonises the rights of the data subject to the exchange. it also represents a major advance in the protection of personal data transferred between the eu and the us in the context of law enforcement activities. in addition, it does not restrict or infringe any rights of the data subject, as it does not constitute a legal basis for data transfers. this agreement shall apply to transfers of personal data between police authorities for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. it covers all transfers of data between those bodies, irrespective of the nationality or place of residence of the data subject. the agreement does not restrict rights but adds new legal protection to the existing data transfer frameworks in the context of eu-us police cooperation, which is why i supported this report.
written. i support the proposal for an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to criminal offences. the purpose of this agreement is to establish a framework of measures and principles for the protection of personal information when transferred for law enforcement purposes between the united states of america, on the one hand, and the european union or a member state, on the other. privacy of information, even in law enforcement cases, must be the absolute priority of all european and united states agencies. this framework agreement establishes a procedure for the notification of any act having a substantial effect on the implementation of the agreement to the other party, for consultation in the event of a dispute concerning its interpretation or application, for the possibility of suspension, for its territorial application and for the unlimited duration of the agreement itself.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the protection of personal data transferred and processed for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism, in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (the 'crown agreement'). the agreement contains provisions setting out the limitation of the purpose and use of personal data, provisions on data quality and integrity and retention period, rules on further transfers of data to third parties, rights of individuals to legal protection, etc. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on the protection of personal data and the agreement on the protection of personal data in the event of a breach of the provisions of this agreement. the agreement does not restrict or infringe any rights of the data subjects, as it does not constitute a legal basis for data transfers. the legal basis for data transfers is found in existing eu-us agreements, bilateral agreements between member states and the us, or in national laws regulating the exchange of personal data. this agreement adds new rights and safeguards to those existing frameworks for data transfers. although there are shortcomings, this agreement represents a major step forward in the protection of personal data transferred between the eu and the us in the context of prosecution activities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the council has requested parliament's assent to the us-eu agreement on the protection of personal information relating to criminal offences. the agreement provides for the protection of personal data transmitted and processed for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism, in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the purpose of the agreement is to achieve a high level of protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, in particular the right to privacy, with regard to the processing of personal data when transferred to competent authorities of the european union and its member states and of the united states for that purpose. i consent to this agreement because it aims to ensure a high level of protection of personal information and to strengthen cooperation between the united states of america and the european union and its member states in relation to the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences for several reasons. first of all, i consider that article 16 in conjunction with article 218 (6) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) constitutes the proper legal basis of the proposal. the envisaged agreement will furthermore guarantee a high level of data protection rights and contribute to legal certainty, and also lay the foundation for high-level operational cooperation between the united states and the european union in the field of law enforcement. in addition, i consider that the concern for the rights of individuals in the vertical relationship is important and expressed, since the draft resolution establishes access to information, its correction and deletion, as well as constitutional and judicial protection.
written. ‒ this agreement guarantees additional protection of personal data when it is transferred and processed for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting and initiating criminal activities, such as terrorism. the commission has also concluded that the transfer of personal data to third parties is not in line with the principles of the privacy shield framework. i voted in favour because i believe that this agreement provides a major breakthrough in the protection of private data when it is transferred between the european union and the united states, without interfering with the work of the judicial and police authorities. the above will be subject to regular checks, the results of which will be publicly visible.
written. ‒ i support this proposal for an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in the context of the prosecution of offenders. the establishment of a high-quality cooperation framework with strictly defined procedures for notification of all acts to the other party, consultation in case of disputes, suspension, territorial application is necessary to define data protection measures and principles when information is transferred for law enforcement purposes between the united states of america, on the one hand, and the european union or a member state, on the other. the protection of the privacy of information must be a priority in the work of all european agencies and agencies of the member states, as well as in the establishment of cooperation in the field of prosecution of suspects of criminal offences.
written. ‒ i support this report on the eu-ghana transitional economic partnership agreement, which was agreed to avoid disruption of trade with the eu after the expiry of the trade provision under the cotonou agreement.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of a transitional economic partnership agreement between ghana, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, as the said agreement brings benefits to both parties. the ghanaian authorities have also provided the commission with the necessary information to enable it to assess the progress made in the implementation of the transitional arrangements. in addition, if the regional epa enters into force without undue delay, any differences in the schedule of tariff liberalisation and tariff items of the transitional epa will be resolved without the need for further adjustments to the regional processes. the transitional gsp also introduces safeguard measures allowing the reintroduction of customs duties in cases where a surge in imports threatens to distort the economic situation, harm the security of food supply or endanger the industries in the hinterland.
written. ‒ ghana and the eu are partners in various areas, including the promotion of regional economic integration and investment. the eu has also provided support to the ghanaian authorities in the form of grants, loans and guarantees. the eu is the largest export market for ghana's cocoa and oil products, and the largest export market for ghana's cocoa and oil products. ghana is the first partner country to decide in august 2016 to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement with the eu, which provides it with a contractual safety net and allows duty-free market access. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the anti-dumping duty on imports of certain footwear with uppers of rubber thread and uppers of plastics originating in the prc. the eu has also signed a new agreement with the republic of ghana on the trade in timber products. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) between the european union and the republic of ghana. since i agree with everything that is written in the report, i am voting in favour of this recommendation.
written. i support the motion for a resolution on the transitional economic partnership agreement between the european union and ghana. the transitional agreement takes into account two key changes, one of which is the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union in 2013 and the introduction of a common external tariff. this agreement is beneficial because it creates a market for european products outside the european union as well as providing a greater development incentive for ghana. the purpose of this agreement is to prevent the creation of trade distortions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the commitments made by the union in the context of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and will continue to monitor the implementation of the commitments made by the union in the context of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). the advantage of this agreement is that it guarantees the activation of mechanisms such as customs duties in cases where a sudden increase in imports may result in a deterioration of the economic situation or damage to the security of food supply or when the initial development of industrial branches is threatened. the european union must be consistent in its implementation of development policy mechanisms and instruments towards low- and middle-income countries, as their economic development is a prerequisite for a more stable political system and peace across africa.
written. ‒ ghana is an important european partner in africa, especially in promoting regional economic integration and investment, and even more than 20% of ghana's external trade is with the eu. ghana is seeking to consolidate its status as a transit hub in the region and diversify its economy - in the process, the eu has become its leading destination for new export sectors in the country. in view of the hesitation of the partner countries, ghana has decided to revive the transitional economic partnership agreement, while working with the eu to encourage other countries to conclude a comprehensive regional development agreement. the transitional agreement will not be able to fully respond to the demands of the present time, but it provides the necessary stability until an interregional solution is established. the agreement will prevent the emergence of trade disruptions and adequately prepare ghana for a future regional economic partnership agreement. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ghana. but i note - ghana needs to continue its efforts to fight corruption and to eradicate child labour in all sectors where it is present. the eu is also ready to help deliver meaningful fiscal reforms, improve the business climate and competitiveness, and facilitate trade and customs cooperation.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ in view of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement, ghana, and subsequently the côte d'ivoire, decided in august 2016 to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement with the european union, concluded in 2007. the agreement provides for a contractual backstop and allows ghana duty-free access to the eu market. ghana is among the leading agri-food exporters of the economic community of west african states and exports cocoa, fruit, nuts and fish. i accept the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of the eu-ghana interim economic partnership agreement as the agreement will allow ghanaian exporters to maintain duty-free access to the european market while ghana progresses and consolidates its position as a middle-income country, all of which leads to greater stability in that part of africa.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a transitional economic partnership agreement between ghana, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part. ghana and the eu are partners in various areas, including the promotion of regional economic integration and investment. the eu has also provided support to the ghanaian authorities in the form of grants, loans and guarantees. ghana is among the leading agricultural and food exporters of the economic community of west african states, exporting cocoa, fruit, nuts, and fish, and importing rice, sugar, and meat. ghana has decided to revive the nine-year-old agreement and not wait for the remaining undecided western african economic partnership agreement (wapepa) partner countries to make a decision on signing the regional development trade agreement, which was initialled on 30 june 2014 and formally endorsed by the leaders of the economic community of west african states (ecowas) on 10 july 2014. the ghanaian authorities have also requested the eu to provide additional information on the implementation of the ghanaian-eu transitional economic partnership agreement (geaap) and the ghanaian-eu transitional economic partnership agreement (epa).
written. ‒ a transitional economic partnership agreement between the european union and ghana is needed until a regional partnership agreement with west africa is concluded, and its purpose is to give that country duty-free access to the european union market. the eu and ghana have agreed to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). i believe that the transition agreement clearly states that ghana needs to pursue reforms, primarily in the areas of fighting corruption and eliminating all forms of child labour in the agriculture, forestry, fisheries and gold sectors, in order to continue cooperation. as the transition agreement marks the ratification of the agreement signed in 2007, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the transitional economic partnership agreement between the european union and ghana which takes into account two important facts - one is the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, and the other is the introduction of a common external tariff. in addition to strengthening integration in the european market, it is necessary to broaden the perspectives of european economic operators towards third countries in such a way as to open up new markets. the commission has also proposed that the european union should provide a financial contribution to the ghanaian authorities to finance the construction of a new airport in ghana. in addition to opening up new markets, the mechanisms agreed between the european union and ghana protect small producers in the event of an increase in imports that could cause economic disruption or damage food supply channels. the mechanisms also protect the development of the ghanaian nascent industries. the development policy instruments for low- and middle-income countries must be targeted and tailored to each individual country in order to create economic growth and a stable political system.
written. ‒ i support this report on the mobilisation of the contingency reserve in 2016 which was adopted by the committee by a large majority.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 as it allows the mobilisation of eur 240,1 million under title 3 security and citizenship. i believe that concrete measures need to be implemented and the necessary financial resources have to be in place to adequately respond to the challenges and obvious problems arising from the migration, refugee and security crises. the commission has also received a number of comments from interested parties, including from the european parliament, the council and the commission.
written. ‒ in order to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 'security and citizenship' of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016, the commission has proposed to mobilise the contingency reserve for 2016 amounting to eur 240,1 million. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission. the appropriations of eur 240,1 million will be fully crossed with the difference up to the ceiling for commitments in title 5 (administration) of the emff for the financial year 2016, and i therefore supported this report.
written. i have supported the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. it is set out beyond the ceiling of the 2014-2020 financial framework as an emergency instrument allowing for a response to unforeseen circumstances. the reserve may be activated only in connection with a budget amendment or an annual budget. the commission has also proposed to mobilise the contingency margin for 2016 in order to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under title 3 'security and citizenship' of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, in line with the commission's proposal for a budget amendment no 4/2016. after the full amount of eur 1 530 million available in 2016 from the flexibility instrument had been mobilised, it has been found necessary to mobilise this reserve to address the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis by increasing the financial commitments in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, above the level of commitments reached in the abovementioned chapter 3.
written. ‒ the commission has proposed, together with draft amending budget no 4/2016, to mobilise the contingency margin for 2016 of eur 240,1 million to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under title 3 'security and citizenship' of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. the ep approves the proposed mobilisation. the appropriations for commitments of eur 240,1 million are fully covered by the difference to the ceiling for commitments in title 5 (administration) of the multiannual financial framework for the financial year 2016.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
the commission proposes, together with draft amending budget no 4/2016, to mobilise the contingency margin for 2016 of eur 240,1 million to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under title 3 (security and citizenship) of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. i accept this draft report because this reallocation of resources within the budget will provide the additional funds needed for unforeseen costs caused by crisis situations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016. i support the commission's proposal to mobilise the contingency margin for 2016 of eur 240,1 million to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure in chapter 3 'security and citizenship' of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
written. ‒ the uncontrolled influx of migrants in recent years has created a migration, refugee and security crisis in the european union. the causes of the migrant crisis are diverse, ranging from escaping the misery of war, to seeking a better life, to leaving dysfunctional states, to fleeing terrorism, and because of its easy accessibility, the european union is one of the most desirable destinations. the european parliament and the council, acting on a proposal from the commission, decided to mobilise the contingency margin of eur 240,1 million for 2016 to respond to the needs arising from this crisis. in view of the seriousness of the situation caused by the migration crisis, i consider the decision to mobilise the contingency reserve to be the right one and i have supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the report on the mobilisation of the contingency reserve for 2016 with regard to the full mobilisation of the flexible instrument in the 2016 budget (eur 1 530 million). the mobilisation of eur 240,1 million through the 2016 contingency margin is the only available instrument to address the gap between the level of the chapter 3 expenditure ceiling and the additional unforeseen needs estimated for 2016. the contingency allowance is a last resort response to unforeseen circumstances and we need to ensure that sufficient funds are available to deal adequately with new situations. although the migration crisis started back in 2015, its impact and consequences are felt every day. the mobilisation of the contingency margin is the only possible solution to meet the budgetary needs for compulsory publications. the availability of the contingency allowance in other chapters allows this mobilisation to be fully neutralised in 2016.
written. ‒ i support this report on the draft amending budget, the main effect of which is a reduction in the level of disbursement of funds of eur 7.2 billion. that money will be returned to the member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: updating appropriations to take account of the latest developments in the field of migration and security, reducing appropriations for payments and commitments as a result of the global transfer, extending the duration of the efsd, amending the establishment plan of frontex and updating the appropriations for revenue, as i believe that the proposed reallocation is correct and will contribute to the overall efficiency of the union budget. i think it is positive that the asylum, migration and integration fund has been increased, the contingency reserve has been mobilised and the efsf funding has been increased. however, it should also be stressed that there are delays in the implementation of eu programmes and that only a small number of refugees have been relocated.
written. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the amount of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million, mainly in the budget lines under subheading 1.b economic, social and territorial cohesion, and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. at the same time, funding for security and the asylum, migration and integration fund is being increased. the report highlights the concern over the surplus of payment appropriations of eur 7 284,3 million, which is the result of major delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this decision. this report accepts the council's position on draft amending budget no 4/2016, which i therefore supported.
written. the amount of appropriations in title 3 security and citizenship is increased by eur 50 million for the instrument for emergency support within the union, by eur 130 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund and by eur 70 million for the internal security fund, which requires the mobilisation of the contingency reserve for a total amount of eur 240,1 million. the increase in appropriations in title 3, by mobilising the contingency reserve, as well as additional appropriations at the beginning of the period in view of the increase in the number of staff in the frontex establishment plan, ensures the implementation of key measures aimed at facilitating the situation of refugees and migrants, but also at securing the external borders of the union. i also welcome in this context the partial increase in the asylum, migration and integration fund. despite this much-needed securing of sufficient funds for union policies under title 3, i am concerned about the delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management paving the way for a significant backlog of payment claims at the end of the current mff. this issue has been a problem for some time and i believe that it is necessary to find a final solution in the context of the revision of the multiannual financial framework.
the council shall adopt its decision on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. the amount of the payment appropriations is reduced by eur 7 284,3 million in that draft and the national contributions are therefore reduced accordingly. there are legitimate concerns regarding the surplus of payment appropriations of eur 7 284,3 million, which is the result of major delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management and paves the way for a significant backlog of payment claims at the end of the current mff. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the draft report expresses concern about the surplus of payment appropriations of eur 7 284,3 million, which is the result of major delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management and paves the way for a significant backlog of payment claims at the end of the current mff. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of eligible costs referred to in paragraph 1 by adding the following: the rapporteur agrees with the increase in appropriations in the title by mobilising the contingency reserve, as well as with the additional appropriations at the beginning of the period in view of the increase in staff in the frontex establishment plan. i support the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: updating appropriations to take account of the latest developments in the field of migration and security, reducing appropriations for payments and commitments as a result of the global transfer, extending the duration of the efsd, amending the establishment plan of frontex and updating the appropriations for revenue (own resources). i consider the budgetary amendments set out in the draft report to be of particular importance because they relate to current events which present challenges for the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i support draft amending budget no 4/2016: updating appropriations to take account of recent developments in the area of migration and security, reducing appropriations for payments and commitments. as these are funds already committed and the financial needs of the european union need to be monitored constantly and systematically, especially when migration and security issues are taken into account, i have decided to support the proposed update of the budget.
written. ‒ the current migration crisis has led to the need to amend the budget for the financial year 2016, i.e. to mobilise the contingency reserve and additional funds in view of the increase in the number of staff in the frontex post plan and the partial increase in the asylum, migration and integration fund. in addition, it is proposed to increase the funding of the european structural investment fund at the beginning of its implementation period, of course with the utmost transparency and close monitoring of expenditure. however, i share the rapporteur's concern about the expected revenue shortfall, which is estimated at eur 1.8 billion, but i hope that the commission will achieve its intention to cover this shortfall with the revenue from additional fines. in view of the continuing pressure on the european union's borders and the volatile situation caused by migratory flows, i consider the draft amending budget to be justified and have supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: implementation of decision 2014/335/eu on own resources after the conclusion of the ratification procedure and its entry into force on 1 october 2016 because it reduces the cost of collecting traditional own resources, the vat share for some member states and the gni contribution for others. this does not affect the overall revenue or expenditure side of the eu budget and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the completion of the ratification and entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom. it introduces changes such as reductions in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, new reduced shares of vat-based resources for some member states and large reductions in gni-based contributions for others. following the completion of the ratification process and entry into force on 1 october 2016, this draft amending budget will take into account the retroactive effect of the new decision as of 1 january 2014 and includes adjustments for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 in relation to the new provisions. it modifies the individual contributions of all member states, but does not affect the total revenue or expenditure side of the union budget, which is why i supported this report.
written. the union's own resources system must ensure adequate resources for the orderly development of the union's policies, subject to strict budgetary discipline. the development of the own resources system can and should also contribute to the wider budget consolidation efforts undertaken in the member states and participate, to the greatest extent possible, in the development of union policies. the own resources ceiling should be equal to 1,23% of the total gni of the member state at market price for the appropriations for payments and a ceiling of 1,29% of the total gni of the member state should be set for the appropriations for commitments. in order to maintain the amount of financial resources made available to the union unchanged, it is appropriate to adjust those ceilings expressed as a percentage of gni. those ceilings should be adjusted as soon as all member states submit their data based on the european system of national and regional accounts (esa 2010). in the event of any amendments to the esa 2010 involving a significant change in the level of gni, the ceilings for own resources and committed appropriations should be readjusted. this decision should enter into force only after it has been approved by all member states in accordance with their respective constitutional provisions, thus fully respecting national sovereignty.
the council shall adopt its decision on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. that draft follows the completion of the ratification and entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which introduces minor changes such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, new reduced shares of vat-based resources for some member states and a large reduction in the gni-based contribution for others. this draft aims to integrate into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016 the effect of the adjustments to the own resources system resulting from the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. the draft budget itself shall amend the individual contributions of all member states, but shall not affect the total revenue or the total expenditure side of the union budget.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ draft budget no 5/2016 results from the completion of the ratification and entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, introducing minor amendments such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, new reduced shares of vat-based resources for some member states and a large reduction in the gni-based contribution for others. this draft amends the individual contributions of all member states, but does not affect the overall revenue and expenditure side of the union budget. the draft budget shall seek to integrate into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016 the effect of the adjustments to the own resources system resulting from the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. i support the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: implementation of own resources decision 2014/335/eu following the closure of the ratification procedure and its entry into force on 1 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on draft amending budget no 5/2016 for the implementation of the own resources decision as it is the implementation of an existing decision and leads to a modification of the proposal of all member states. taking into account that draft budget no 5/2016 results from the completion of the ratification and entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom and introduces minor changes such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, new reduced shares of vat-based resources for some member states and a large reduction in gni-based contributions for others, i have decided to support the motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 on budgetary discipline requires the european parliament, the council and the commission to cooperate on budgetary matters and sound financial management. the commission adopted draft amending budget no 5/2016 on the basis of the council decision on the system of own resources of the european union, incorporating into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016 the effect of adjustments to the system of own resources with retroactive effect for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 and amending the contributions of the member states. in accordance with article 21 of the financial regulation, any revenue will be used to provide additional appropriations under articles 10 01 05, 10 02 05, 10 02 51, 10 02 51, 10 02 52, 10 02 51, 10 02 52, 10 02 51, 10 02 52, 10 02 52, 10 02 51, 10 02 52, 10 02 52, 10 02 52, 10 02 52, 10 03 52 and 10 03 52 of the statement of expenditure in this section.
written. ‒ i support the implementation of the own resources decision. the union's own resources system must ensure adequate resources for the orderly development of the union's policies, subject to strict budgetary discipline. the development of the own resources system can and should also contribute to the wider budget consolidation efforts undertaken in the member states and participate, to the greatest extent possible, in the development of union policies. the own resources ceiling should be equal to 1,23% of the total gni of the member state at market price for the appropriations for payments and a ceiling of 1,29% of the total gni of the member state should be set for the appropriations for commitments. in order to maintain the amount of financial resources made available to the union unchanged, it is appropriate to adjust those ceilings expressed as a percentage of gni. those ceilings should be adjusted as soon as all member states submit their data on the basis of esa 2010. in the event of any amendments to the esa 2010 involving a significant change in the level of gni, the ceilings for own resources and committed appropriations should be readjusted. this decision should enter into force only after it has been approved by all member states in accordance with their respective constitutional provisions, thus fully respecting national sovereignty.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany, which suffered a disaster in may and june 2016 when major floods in lower bavaria, in particular in the district of rottal-inn, affected the population, destroyed basic infrastructure, water supply, sewerage and the electricity distribution network. seven people lost their lives and more than 47 000 people in lower bavaria were affected by the disaster, while two months after the floods more than 2 000 people were still unable to return to their homes. the commission notes that the aid amount is eur 31 475 125 for the large damage caused. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in relation to the above, which i fully agree with.
written. ‒ the commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance in connection with the disaster that struck germany in may and june 2016. the commission has also received information from the member states and the commission on the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and the environment. major damage has been done to basic infrastructure, water supply, sewage and electricity distribution network. the german authorities estimated the total direct damage at eur 1 259 005 million. the commission notes that the aid granted to the land of bavaria was granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per hectare. the commission has proposed to apply a rate of 2,5% of the total direct damage for all damage up to the threshold for large-scale disasters. the total amount of aid proposed therefore amounts to eur 31 475 125. this is the second mobilisation decision for 2016 and the total amount of aid proposed is in line with the provisions on the eu solidarity fund ceiling. in solidarity with the affected region, it is urgent that this aid be approved, which is why i have supported this report.
written. following the numerous cases of very severe flash floods that affected lower bavaria, in particular the district of rottal-inn, in may and june 2016, affecting more than 47000 people, germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the eu solidarity fund. taking into account the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the council regulation establishing the european union solidarity fund, which aims to enable the eu to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations in order to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by natural disasters, and the fact that germany's request fulfils the conditions for a financial contribution from the fund, i support the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to provide financial assistance to germany. the proposed aid of eur 31 475 125 is crucial to mitigate the consequences of this regional disaster. two thousand people lost their homes. the town of simbach am inn was almost completely destroyed. the floods have caused enormous damage to property, destroyed infrastructure, and caused enormous damage to agricultural land. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund is therefore necessary to help repair the damage and to start the reconstruction and rebuilding and to return the population in the affected regions to their daily lives as soon as possible.
written. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies in order to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by natural disasters. following a number of very severe flash floods in lower bavaria in may and june 2016, germany submitted an application to mobilise the fund in august 2016. numerous floods and mudslides have caused the destruction of public and private infrastructure, homes and agricultural land, and human casualties. the request by germany fulfils the conditions for a financial contribution from the fund. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the total amount of aid proposed therefore amounts to eur 31 475 125. the fund should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution to germany.
written. ‒ the german region has been hit by natural disasters this year, which have had disastrous consequences. the flooding has destroyed public and private infrastructure, agricultural land and has claimed seven lives. on 19 august 2016, germany submitted an application to mobilise the european union solidarity fund, following a number of very severe flash floods that affected niederbayern in may and june 2016. in these circumstances, it is important to show the support of the european union and to enable a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergencies in order to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by natural disasters. i support the draft report as the request of germany qualifies for a financial contribution from the fund, in accordance with article 4 of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. i consider that the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund is necessary as 47 000 people are directly and/or indirectly affected and have suffered material damage, and 2000 people have not been able to return to their homes for 2 months after the floods. seven people died. the german authorities must repair the destroyed public and private infrastructure and the european union, respecting its own essential and meritorious principles, is obliged to provide financial assistance to germany.
the commission has also received a request from the german authorities to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in august 2016 to help the victims of the floods in the niederbayern region in may and june. the total amount of aid proposed of eur 31 375 125 will address the direct damage caused by the floods, including the rehabilitation of houses, public and private infrastructure and the agricultural sector. the european union has repeatedly demonstrated its solidarity with the population affected by natural disasters by activating the european union solidarity fund. i believe that in this case too, which has been labelled a regional disaster, the european union must react quickly, effectively and flexibly. that is why i supported the report on the provision of financial assistance to germany to repair the damage caused.
written. ‒ i support the call for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. it is particularly important in situations of natural disasters, such as the floods in germany, to help the local population as soon as possible to repair damage to homes and public and private property as easily as possible. a large number of people in the lower bavarian area were affected by the floods, and a number of them did not return to their homes even after three weeks, which is a worrying fact. the european union's solidarity and assistance to the affected parts of germany is needed as a precondition and guarantee for the recovery of the damage caused by the natural disaster. in addition to the urgent need to rebuild the homes of the local population, particular attention should be paid to the restoration of infrastructure and agricultural land and all the resources necessary for the normal life of the people in the area.
written. - i support this report. the commission proposes to mobilise eur 31 475 125 for the german state of lower bavaria, in response to the floods in may and june 2016. the total direct damage estimated by the german authorities amounts to eur 1,26 billion. the proposal is linked to the proposal for amending budget no 6/2016.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016, with a proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per beneficiary. in the case of natural or other disasters causing serious damage and exceptional hardship, i believe that it is necessary to react as quickly and as efficiently as possible in order to mitigate the negative consequences. i support the increase of the budget line to eur 31 475 125 and this draft amending budget.
written. ‒ draft budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the floods that affected germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the budget for 2016 and to increase budget line 13 06 01 'aid to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. the commission should be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the european solidarity fund to finance the implementation of the union's external action in the field of the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
written. draft budget no 6/2016 includes the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the floods that affected germany in may and june 2016, and therefore proposes to increase budget line 13 06 01 'aid to member states in the event of major natural disasters having serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations, which is the amount of aid authorised by the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for germany. the european union solidarity fund is a specific instrument as defined by the multiannual financial framework (mff) regulation for which a ceiling of eur 500 million is fixed on an annual basis. the rules also provide for the financing of the difference if the need arises. as the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany in the event of a regional disaster has been approved, i support the increase of the budget line for the amount of aid approved.
written. ‒ the commission has proposed to amend the budget for 2016 and to increase budget line 13 06 01 'aid to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the council's position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 is therefore accepted.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission proposes to amend the budget for 2016 and to increase budget line 13 06 01 'aid to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125,00 in commitment and payment appropriations. the european union solidarity fund constitutes a specific instrument as defined by the mff regulation and that the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations should be entered in the budget above the ceilings of the mff. i support the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016, with the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. i believe that solidarity is one of the fundamental values of the european union, and for this reason we need to find ways and means to provide maximum assistance to each member state in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016, with the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. since the european union is obliged to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in the event of a disaster, and since the european union disaster affected bavaria, i consider it necessary to draw up a budgetary amendment to implement the procedure for mobilising the solidarity fund provided for in the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany.
the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the implementation of this decision. the european union solidarity fund was established in 2002 to provide financial assistance to countries affected by large-scale natural disasters or exceptional regional disasters. in recent years, several eu member states have been hit by natural disasters - from croatia, which was hit by floods in 2014, to italy, which was hit by earthquakes this year, and now germany, which has been hit by floods. these experiences show that a rapid and appropriate response is essential to show solidarity with citizens. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the aid on the member states' ability to cope with the current crisis and to provide the necessary financial support to the member states. that's why i voted for this resolution.
written. ‒ in line with the commission's proposals to amend the budget and increase the budget line 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy', i support this report. as the above draft budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, which is a specific instrument of the european union, i consider it of the utmost importance that this report be adopted.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017, as it mobilises an amount of eur 1 164,4 million for that year. it is clear that the european union will continue to face the internal security crisis, as well as the migration, humanitarian and refugee challenges in the coming year, and in this context i believe that these additional resources are more than necessary. i believe that union funds must be used in a transparent and efficient way and that the issuance must be in line with the political priorities of the union. in that context, i think this mobilization of resources is realistic, which i support.
written. ‒ in order to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under title 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the ceiling for commitments of eur 2 578 million, the commission proposed in its draft budget to mobilise a contingency reserve of eur 1 164,4 million. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the multiannual financial framework for the period from 1 january 2017 to 31 december 2017, and the annual work programme for the period from 1 january 2017 to 31 december 2018. having considered all other financial options for responding to unforeseen circumstances within the 2017 ceilings for expenditure for titles 3 (security and citizenship) and 4 (global europe) set by the mff and taking into account the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to the extent of the total available amount for 2017 of eur 530 million, the mobilisation of the contingency margin is necessary to respond to all needs by increasing the commitment appropriations in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017. in order to minimise the time needed to mobilise the contingency margin, this decision should apply from the beginning of the financial year 2017, and i therefore supported this report.
written. council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 established a contingency reserve of up to 0,03 % of the union's gross national income. it is set out beyond the ceiling of the 2014-2020 financial framework as an emergency instrument allowing for a response to unforeseen circumstances. the commission therefore considers that the union's financial contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance should be limited to the amount necessary to cover the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. i consider that such additional financial assistance is necessary. the unpredictability of the crisis justifies the use of the mobilisation of the contingency reserve. the new instrument for the provision of emergency support within the union, which was adopted by the council in 2016 and will continue to be used in 2017 for humanitarian support, is in my view an adequate response to the current influx of refugees and migrants into the union. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this decision.
the commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. it shall submit that report to the european parliament and to the council. after considering all other financial options for responding to unforeseen circumstances within the 2017 expenditure ceilings for titles 3 (security and citizenship) and 4 (global europe) of the multiannual financial framework and taking into account the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to the extent of the total available amount for 2017 of eur 530 million, the mobilisation of the contingency margin appears necessary in order to respond to the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis. the condition of urgency laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 is fulfilled.
written. ‒ the mobilisation of the contingency reserve of the 2017 budget of eur 1,9 billion for title 3 (security and citizenship) and title 4 (global europe) will be used for the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, in order to ensure that the european data protection supervisor is able to perform his or her duties in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. i accept this draft report because this reallocation of resources within the budget will provide the additional funds needed for unforeseen costs caused by crisis situations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017. in line with the many emergencies that have occurred during 2016, i consider it necessary to mobilise funds from the 2017 budget in order to be able to respond as promptly as possible to humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges.
written. ‒ the 2013 multiannual financial framework directive of the european union allows for the mobilisation of unforeseen expenditure of 0,03 % of gdp, which applies to all member states of the union. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any evidence that the measures were in line with the market economy operator test. the commission's proposal is to mobilise a margin of eur 1.9 billion and it is linked to the expenditure needed to deal with the migrant crisis, which i supported.
written. ‒ we are aware that we are facing increasing and serious humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges and that additional financial needs will arise to address security issues. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in order to ensure that the union's financial contribution to the union's external action is sufficient to cover the costs of the union's external action. i agree that it is essential to mobilise the contingency margin in order to be able to respond adequately to future potential problems posed as a threat to the security of the union. i support the draft budget proposal to mobilise around eur 1 billion during 2017 for the specific purpose of financing the measures proposed by the commission.
written. ‒ i support this report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument of eur 530 million. the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the implementation of this regulation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance urgent budgetary measures to deal with the ongoing migration, refugee and security crisis, as this assistance, together with the flexibility of the union budget, is essential in the current situation. this report supports the commission's proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument to increase the appropriations in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017 by eur 530 million above the ceiling of title 3 to finance measures in the area of migration, refugees and security.
written. ‒ the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to increase the appropriations in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017 by eur 530 million above the ceiling of title 3 to finance measures in the area of migration, refugees and security. the total amount available for the flexibility instrument for the financial year 2017 has therefore been fully used. since it is not possible to adequately finance urgent measures in the areas of migration, refugees and security within the ceilings of title 3 in 2017, the flexibility instrument should be mobilised to the amount of eur 530 million in commitment appropriations. the mobilisation of this instrument under article 11 of the emff regulation once again points to the urgent need for greater flexibility of the union budget, which is why i supported this report.
written. i support the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance urgent budgetary measures to address the ongoing migration, refugee and security crisis. the flexibility instrument is intended to finance clearly defined expenditure which cannot be financed within the available ceilings, as is currently the case. in line with the urgent needs, it is necessary to mobilise additional funds to alleviate the migration, refugee and security crisis. having examined all possibilities for reallocating appropriations from chapter 3 (security and citizenship), it appears that all the necessary conditions are met and that it is necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument of eur 530 million to complete the financing of the general budget of the european union for the year 2017, thus providing funds for measures in the areas of migration, refugees and security. the payment appropriations correspond to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument and are to be reallocated over several financial years, based on the expected profit for payment, and are estimated at eur 238,3 million in 2017, eur 91 million in 2018, eur 141,9 million in 2019 and eur 58,8 million in 2020.
written. ‒ given that it is not possible to adequately finance urgent measures in the area of migration, refugees and security under the ceilings of title 3 in 2017, i agree to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the amount of eur 530 million in commitment appropriations. however, it is important to reiterate the parliament's position that more flexibility of the union budget is urgently needed and that the annual amount available for the flexibility instrument needs to be increased to eur 2 billion.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ having considered all possibilities for reallocating appropriations under the expenditure ceiling of title 3 (security and citizenship), it is necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 above the ceiling of title 3 by eur 530 million and to finance measures in the area of migration, refugees and security. the appropriations for payments under the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument should be allocated as follows: eur 238,3 million in 2017, eur 91 million in 2018, eur 141,9 million in 2019 and eur 58,8 million in 2020. i accept this draft amending budget because by this reallocation of resources within the budget for this and the next year, we will secure the additional funds needed for unforeseen expenses caused by crisis situations.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance urgent budgetary measures to deal with the ongoing migration, refugee and security crisis. since the budgetary framework of the european union does not allow for an adequate response to the urgent measures needed in the area of migration, refugees and security, i consider it necessary to mobilise the flexibility instruments to finance the urgent budgetary measures. i agree with the proposed breakdown of the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 238,3 million in 2017, eur 91 million in 2018, eur 141,9 million in 2019 and eur 58,8 million in 2020.
the 2013 multiannual financial framework (mff) directive allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance expenditure above the ceiling. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. as i understand and recognise the gravity and complexity of the emergency situation facing the eu during the said crisis, i supported this commission proposal.
written. ‒ the proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instruments under the general draft budget of the european union, which would add eur 530 million to the available budgetary resources, is urgently needed. as it has been demonstrated that the current measures do not adequately finance emergency measures relating to migration, refugees and security, i support this proposal as i believe it is essential to minimise the time needed to mobilise the flexibility instruments and i welcome the commission's proposals in the context of the mid-term review of the emff to increase the budgetary capacity to respond quickly and appropriately to unforeseen events.
written. ‒ i support this report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, which is not linked to a specific disaster, but allocates eur 50 million for a disaster that could eventually occur in 2017.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to allow the payment of advances to the general budget of the union for 2017 in order to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources in the event of a disaster. the general budget of the union for 2017 shall endeavour to include an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations. the union will use its rapid reaction capability, including the payment of advances, to help affected citizens as effectively and quickly as possible.
the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 (article 10) allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the limits of the relevant headings of the financial framework. this proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to a specific disaster but seeks to enter in the general budget of the union for 2017 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations, in order to ensure the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of a disaster occurring during the following year. the commission has also provided information on the impact of the 2014 amendment regulation on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries concerned. the amount of the advance should not exceed 10% of the financial contribution provided for and eur 30 million. the advance shall be paid without prejudice to the final decision on the mobilisation of the fund and the european commission will ensure the recovery of unduly paid advances by the member state. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. as the eusf is not just another form of eu financial support but contributes to sending a clear political message of solidarity and at the same time provides much-needed help to the affected citizens, i supported this report.
written. i support the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to enable the payment of advances for damage caused by disasters in the territory of the european union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of central and eastern europe. it is also likely that most future disasters will have a wider regional context and that it will be difficult to locate the extent and the area affected. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. the damage to infrastructure, in particular to housing, roads and utilities, must be removed in a short time to allow normal life after the disaster. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in breach of the rules on state aid.
written. ‒ for the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances. this is a direct result of a new provision defended by the european parliament which aims to speed up the disbursement of aid to affected countries through the payment of advances before a final decision on the allocation is taken, thereby increasing the effectiveness of the fund. at the insistence of parliament, a provision was inserted in regulation (eu) no 661/2014 proposing to provide in the budget for each year an amount of up to eur 50 million in commitments and payments in order to guarantee the timely availability of budgetary resources.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up to respond to emergencies caused by large-scale natural disasters and to express solidarity with regions affected by disasters. the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund of eur 50 million is not linked to a specific disaster but aims to enable the payment of advances to the general budget of the union for 2017. this would allow for a rapid and efficient distribution of funds in the event of a disaster during the following year. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 as regards the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. i support the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund because it is very important that victims of natural disasters receive immediate assistance in the first moments after a disaster, which are the most existentially difficult.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to allow for the payment of advances to the general budget of the union for 2017. the european union solidarity fund established with the aim of providing financial assistance to the member states of the european union affected by natural disasters, in order to follow the principle of european union solidarity. this proposal, however, is not linked to any existing disaster that needs to be remedied. it seeks to enter in the general budget of the european union for 2017 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment appropriations for the timely payment of advances in the event of a disaster in the following year. i fully support such precautionary measures, which will facilitate and accelerate the eventual aid delivery process, and i believe that by them the european union is putting in place a quality prevention system and demonstrating a high level of preparedness for possible disasters.
the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, in order to supplement this regulation by establishing a european data protection supervisor. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative, which is a key instrument in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that people affected by such disasters should be given timely support.
written. ‒ i support this report on the budgetary procedure for 2017.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the joint text on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, which was accepted by the conciliation committee in the context of the budgetary procedure, because i consider that the proposal is balanced and consistent with the current challenges facing the union. the commission has also received a request from the french authorities to provide additional information on the measures taken to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. in addition, the european commission is committed to ensuring transparency and improving the information provided to budgetary authorities in the context of current and planned funding, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ this report approves the joint text agreed in the conciliation committee, which consists of a list of lines not amended in relation to the draft budget, the total amounts by heading of the financial framework, the amount for all budgetary items, a cleaned-up document indicating the amounts and the final text of all lines amended during the conciliation. the report recalls that reducing youth unemployment remains an important common political priority and confirms the determination to make the best use of the budgetary resources available to address this issue, in particular through the youth employment initiative. the council and the european parliament invite the commission to propose an amendment to the budget for 2017 in order to provide eur 500 million for the youth employment initiative in 2017, financed from the total commitment gap. it is also necessary to ensure an orderly flow of payments in relation to the commitment appropriations, in order to avoid any unusual level of unpaid invoices at the end of the year. in order to address the main causes of migration, the commission proposes to allocate eur 750 million to the eff guarantee fund over the period 2017-2020. the 2017 budget also contains a number of urgent measures to help farmers to cope with recent market difficulties. i supported this report.
written. i welcome the agreement reached on the eu budget for 2017 and would like to highlight again a number of priorities that i believe should be insisted on in order to make the lives of the citizens of the union as good as possible. first of all, i would like to draw attention to the difficult situation in agriculture and the continuing crises that are destroying rural populations throughout europe. european farmers, pressured by the state of the global market, the crisis in the milk sector, the crisis in the fruit and vegetable sector, faced with the increasingly frequent and increasingly severe consequences of global warming, exposed to unfair trade practices and other problems caused by political decisions such as the russian embargo, simply cannot cope with the difficult situation any longer. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cap and its implementation in the member states. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's financial contribution to the union budget is limited to the amount of eur 300000000 in commitment appropriations. secondly, it is also necessary to provide sufficient funds to compensate for the damage caused by climate change. prompt disaster relief is essential. measures such as the youth initiative should also help to rejuvenate the agricultural sector. without young farmers, there will soon be no sustainable agriculture.
written. ‒ the budget for next year is not perfect, but it is definitely a step in the right direction. a united europe is the complex and proud project of our continent, and like any project, it requires bold investment and resolute support when the environment calls into question its success. this success is not possible without the support of future generations and the additional eur 500 million foreseen for the already existing means of reducing youth unemployment is the only correct message that we can, indeed must, send to young people across our union. the eu is facing many other challenges such as the migrant crisis and slow economic growth all of them call for a respectable and flexible budget and i am proud that the s&d has shown great strength in believing in its ideals when it was crucial. in order to meet the challenges of the future, it is essential to lay a solid foundation for innovation in the eu. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's digital economy and the european union's digital economy, and will continue to support the development of the digital economy. of course, the eu as a responsible global actor cannot think only of itself and i therefore welcome the decision of our institutions to provide additional funds to stimulate development in our neighbourhood and to take active action against the root causes of the migration crisis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the eu budget for 2017 consists of €159.7 billion in financial commitments for payment upon fulfilment of the conditions required and €134.5 billion in commitments for cash or bank transactions to budget beneficiaries. i support the eu budget for next year because it contains additional funds for the migration crisis and aid for farmers.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the budgetary procedure for 2017. i think that the additional items that the budget has brought, such as additional money for europol, the eastern partnership, macro-financial assistance represent exceptional progress in the financial segment for the eu. in particular, i support the joint statement on the youth employment initiative, which recalls that reducing youth unemployment remains an important common political priority and i consider it necessary to reaffirm the union's determination to make the best use of financial resources in order to tackle youth unemployment in the best possible way.
written. ‒ in october this year, parliament voted on its position on the union budget. since parliament had substantially modified the council's position, a conciliation committee was convened with a deadline of 21 days to agree a final text. the parliament's position is to increase the budget compared to the commission's initial proposal, for which the council had asked for a reduction, arguing that parliament must focus on the level of implementation of each budget item, while the commission criticised the council's proposal, arguing that it would jeopardise the implementation of a number of eu projects. i will not support the compromise reached roughly between the commission's and the council's positions because many items in the budget lack the margin and certain priority items lack the funds because they are re-grouped from those which are not needed.
the joint draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, which sets the level of expenditure at eur 157 857,8 million, reflects a fair and equitable reallocation of resources to meet all the commitments envisaged for the following year. the mobilisation of the eur 530 million security and citizenship flexibility instrument ensures sufficient resources to respond in a timely manner to and address the challenges posed by the current migration and humanitarian crises. the soundness and systematic nature of this draft budget is also reflected in the provision of sufficient funds for contingencies, sustainable growth and the mobilisation of flexibility instruments. i agree with and support the draft budget because i believe it will ensure the smooth functioning of the institutions and the settlement of all the obligations arising.
written. ‒ i support this question to the commission on the situation in italy after the earthquake, especially as we are entering a period of severe weather conditions due to the upcoming winter season. the winter period is one of the main concerns for a large number of displaced persons and this needs to be addressed quickly and effectively in order to guarantee decent living conditions for homeless people.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the situation in italy after the earthquake because the debate on the situation was initiated on my initiative. i think it is extremely important that on one such important issue almost all the clubs of members of parliament have succeeded in uniting. in this context, it is of great importance to simplify the procedure and to reduce the time needed for the authorisation and disbursement of the eu solidarity fund and to review the possibility of establishing a european investment bank framework loan facility, which would be set up to provide funds to member states before they are disbursed from the solidarity fund. the resolution calls on the european commission, inter alia, to accelerate the development of preventive measures for earthquake protection, crisis management and generally minimising the negative consequences of natural disasters through its programmes. the commission also notes that the financial corrections provided for in the 2014-2020 programming period are in line with the principles of the union's macro-financial assistance and the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ the earthquakes that struck italy in the second half of this year completely destroyed the villages in the area and afterwards brought the inhabitants of the area to the brink of despair. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the institutions of the european union and the member states have shown exceptional solidarity and mutual assistance in emergencies. the european union has activated the copernicus emergency management service at the request of the italian government to obtain a satellite-based assessment of the damage in the affected areas. the european parliament underlines the importance of public r&d in disaster prevention and management and calls for even better coordination and cooperation between r&d institutions in the member states, especially those facing similar risks. the importance of compliance with the rules on fire-resistant construction in relation to buildings and infrastructure should be further emphasised. buildings must meet current earthquake standards, so caution should be exercised when issuing building permits. i believe that in prevention it is important to create synergies between all existing instruments, including the european structural and investment funds, and i therefore supported this resolution.
from august to october 2016, three devastating earthquakes struck the central apennines, causing 290 deaths, more than 400 injuries and leading to the evacuation of tens of thousands of people. in the affected areas, the deformation has covered an area of about 130 square kilometres, with a maximum displacement of at least 70 centimetres, and has led to significant destruction of settlements, infrastructure and historical, artistic and cultural heritage, even of world importance, as well as to the complete cessation of manufacturing and tourism activities. i complain that the constraints imposed by the union budget rules in force and state aid make it practically impossible for member states at risk of earthquakes to implement coordinated plans for investment in reconstruction and prevention and plans to support the economic activities affected by earthquakes, without those member states having to deny services or funds intended for other structural investments already planned. i express my deepest condolences for the victims and my sympathy for all citizens affected by the earthquakes and express my admiration and congratulations for the courage in organising and providing assistance, especially to the civil protection workers, volunteers, police, firefighters and mayors. for this reason, i supported the european parliament resolution on the situation in italy after the earthquake.
written. ‒ a devastating earthquake struck italy in august 2016, followed by three other major quakes and a series of smaller quakes in october of the same year. these earthquakes have destroyed cities, damaged local and regional infrastructure, and destroyed historical and cultural heritage. economic activities, the environment, agriculture and the potential of the tourism and hospitality industries have also suffered. more than 400 people were reportedly injured, 290 were killed, and 100,000 residents were displaced. there is legitimate concern about the large number of displaced persons who will be exposed to severe weather conditions during the coming winter. s&d expresses its solidarity and sympathy with all individuals and families in the areas affected by the earthquakes, as well as with the italian authorities involved in providing aid. i welcome the granting of a greater degree of flexibility to italy in the calculation of the deficit for the costs incurred as a result of the earthquake, in order to enable it to respond effectively and quickly to the emergency situation. the italian government has submitted an application for a grant from the european solidarity fund and i consider it important that the commission now take all the necessary measures to analyse that application and to enable a rapid mobilisation. it is important that advances are made available to the national authorities as soon as possible in order to enable them to respond to the urgent needs associated with the situation.
written. ‒ in the last 15 years, devastating earthquakes have killed thousands of people and left hundreds of thousands homeless. southeastern europe is a region of strong seismic activity, as we have seen in the example of central italy. reports indicate that more than 400 people were injured and 290 were killed. the earthquakes and aftershocks in central italy have continued over the past few months, and the october 30 quake in italy was the strongest recorded in that country since 1980. the members of the european union must stand together in solidarity and help each other in emergencies of this nature. homes, towns, historical and cultural heritage have been destroyed, and that is precisely why i support this resolution, because i believe that we must provide decent living conditions for the people who have been left homeless, and that these financial incentives should help to revitalise the businesses, tourism and gastronomy of the affected areas as economic sectors.
in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution tabled under rule 128 (5) and rule 123 (4) of the rules of procedure, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the following groups: ppe (b8-1285/2016), verts/ale (b8-1286/2016), s&d (b8-1288/2016), efdd (b8-1289/2016), ecr (b8-1291/2016), alde (b8-1294/2016), gue/ngl (b8-1296/2016) on the situation in italy following the earthquake. i think it is important to highlight the importance of the european union civil protection mechanism in fostering cooperation in crisis situations between national civil protection authorities across europe and in minimising the consequences of emergency events. i also support the call on the commission and the member states to further simplify the procedures for activating this mechanism so that it can be made available quickly and efficiently immediately after a disaster has occurred. in particular, i believe that there is a need to establish improved early warning systems in the member states and to create and strengthen links between the various early warning systems in order to prevent or at least reduce damage in the event of future earthquakes in the best possible way.
‒ italy, one of the most seismically active countries in the world, was struck by several devastating earthquakes between august 24 and october 20, 2016. the quakes killed 290 people, injured more than 400, and forced 100,000 citizens from their homes. in addition, the earthquakes have destroyed cities, damaged local and regional infrastructure, historical and cultural heritage and have a negative impact on agriculture, economy and tourism in the area. by this resolution, together with the other signatories, i called on the commission to take the necessary measures to provide effective and rapid support through the european union solidarity fund and to consider the possibility of activating the european fund for rural development and to use the funds received for the purpose for which they were intended by the italian government. i believe that this can greatly help the people affected by the earthquakes and help to bring about the much-needed recovery of economic and agricultural activities.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the situation in italy after the earthquake. it is very important to show solidarity with the people of italy who have suffered enormous losses, both human and material. at this time, it is urgent to express concern about the large number of people who have lost their homes as a result of the devastating earthquakes. with the cold winter ahead, it is urgent to provide shelter for people whose homes have been destroyed by earthquakes. the solidarity fund must be used as soon as possible to provide financial assistance to the victims so that we do not have more victims of this natural disaster as a result of the slow response. in addition to taking clear action and reacting to the current situation in italy, it is important to plan preventive actions that would minimise or at least mitigate such disasters in the future. the importance and urgency of this situation was also demonstrated by the great courage of the rescue teams, volunteers and authorities at all levels in italy.
written. - i support this report. we need more parliamentary scrutiny of conflicts of interest in the european commission. the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system is not enough. the european parliament must have the ability to properly consider candidates because politicians need to regain the trust of citizens. as rapporteur for the opinion of the envi committee on the procedure for the election of commissioners, i proposed similar measures.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the commissioner's declarations of financial interests guideline (2016/2080 ((ini))), as practice has shown that this issue needs to be regulated better. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial situation of the beneficiary of the aid is such that it would be possible to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. it proposes a procedure for reviewing declarations of financial interests prior to the hearing of candidate commissioners, then a procedure for reviewing declarations of financial interests during the commissioners' mandate, and proposes to the commission the revision and the way of revising the 2011 code of conduct for commissioners. furthermore, the responsibilities, working methods, necessary documentation and the method of collection of the competent committee on legal affairs should be clearly and unambiguously defined in order to achieve the necessary transparency and efficiency in this regard.
written. ‒ the purpose of the review of the commissioners' declaration of financial interests is to examine whether the commissioners-designate are capable of exercising their duties with complete independence and to ensure the utmost transparency and accountability of the commission, in accordance with article 17 (3) of the treaty on european union, article 245 tfeu and the code of conduct for commissioners. the legal affairs committee shall be responsible for carrying out a comprehensive analysis of the declarations of financial interests, by means of a thorough examination aimed at establishing the credibility and accuracy of the content of the declarations of financial interests of the commissioner-designate. the problem is a poorly defined provision that does not cover the exact scope of the review carried out by this committee. parliament insisted that the committee issue guidelines in the form of recommendations or own-initiative reports to help reform the procedures for commissioner statements. the rapporteur proposes that the committee define a framework for the examination of declarations of financial interests, which would include the appointment of the new commission and the course of its mandate, and the transparency obligations to which its members are subject. any major change in the financial interests of a commissioner during his or her term of office and any reallocation of responsibilities between the members of the commission represents a new situation with regard to the possible existence of a conflict of interest and should be considered by parliament in the context of the examination procedure. i supported this report.
written. i support the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the declarations of the commissioner's financial interests. i would remind you that the purpose of the examination of the declaration of financial interests of commissioners is to examine the ability of the commissioner-designate to act with complete independence and to ensure the utmost transparency and accountability of the commission, in accordance with article 17 (3) of the treaty on european union, article 245 tfeu and the code of conduct for commissioners. in this regard, i note that this should not be limited to the appointment of a new commission but should also apply to filling a vacancy due to the resignation of a commissioner, compulsory retirement or death of a commissioner, accession of a new member state or a substantial change in the portfolio of commissioners or their financial interests. i believe that this would give a more complete picture of the financial situation of the commissioner and give sufficient assurance that the person in question will carry out this responsible task with the utmost integrity. the code of conduct for commissioners should cover all financial interests and activities of the commissioner-designate and his/her spouse and should in no way be limited to those which could give rise to a conflict of interest.
written. ‒ strengthening ethics in the eu institutions is one of the pillars of european governance that must be trusted by our citizens. with the extension of the commission's political mandate by the treaty of lisbon, it has become even more important to have clear criteria and to respect the principle of transparency in the selection of commissioners. the confirmation by the legal affairs committee of the absence of a conflict of interest became an unavoidable prerequisite for the hearing of candidates. the commission shall inform the european parliament and the council of the outcome of the consultations. it is necessary to provide parliament with all the information requested when taking a decision on the suitability of a candidate, thereby ensuring an open and consistent assessment by the whole commission when appointed. i regret that the information in the current forms is limited and inadequate, without a detailed definition of conflict of interest and does not allow parliament to assess fairly and consistently the ability of candidates to perform their duties with complete independence and to ensure the commission's accountability. the commission should therefore be given sufficient time to carry out a thorough and thus effective analysis, with the right to additional hearings and to make the necessary clarifications where necessary. in this context, the concept of 'conflict of interest' must refer to objective and verifiable factors. i call for checks to be carried out in other procedures, not just the commission's appointment procedure.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the european parliament expects to be provided with all information on the financial interests of the commissioners-designate and to have their declarations of interests forwarded to the competent committee on legal affairs for examination. the european parliament also advocates that the committee should issue guidelines in the form of a recommendation or an own-initiative report. the code of conduct for commissioners requires them to declare any financial interest and assets which could give rise to a conflict of interest in the performance of their duties, including holdings by a partner of a member of the commission which could give rise to a conflict of interest. i support the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the declarations of financial interests of commissioners because the confirmation by the committee responsible of the absence of conflicts of interest is necessary for legal matters as a precondition for the hearing of commissioner-designate. i also consider that a number of parliament's recommendations for improvements, in particular with regard to the declarations of financial interests of members of the commission, the restrictions linked to post-term recruitment in the commission and the strengthening of the ad hoc ethics committee responsible for identifying conflicts of interest, have not been taken into account and in this context parliament's views on changes and improvements to the procedure for hearing commissioner-designate should also be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the commissioner's declaration of financial interests - guidelines. i consider that the committee on legal affairs, the committee responsible for carrying out the detailed analysis of the declarations of financial interests, should be given all the appropriate factual and legal mechanisms on the basis of which the analysis will be carried out. in doing so, i believe that the priority must be to provide adequate time for the analysis to be effective. the emphasis must in any event be on the principle of confidentiality during the examination of the financial report and that, after its publication, the results of the examination are published in accordance with the principle of transparency. i also consider it necessary to provide the legal service with mechanisms to enable it to conduct additional hearings and obtain further clarifications in the event of any irregularities being detected.
‒ the legal affairs committee has produced a report which provides guidance on establishing clear rules for determining possible conflicts of interest of commissioners and clarifies the committee's remit. the report defines the meaning of 'conflict of interest' as any situation where private interests are opposed to the public interest and public interests affect or could affect the independence, impartiality and objectivity of the performance of the duties, and explains the procedure for reviewing declarations of financial interests before the hearings of candidate commissioners and during the commissioners' term of office. since i believe that the proposed procedures increase transparency and clarity of procedures, thus reducing ambiguity and facilitating the task of the members of the committee on legal affairs, i voted in favour of the adoption of this report.
written. ‒ i support this report because it calls for the commissioners' full independence in the performance of their duties, which is important for increasing the commission's transparency and accountability. i consider it necessary to check the statement of financial interests of the commissioners at every stage of the commission's staffing and of new members who take office as replacements following the resignation or death of a commissioner or in the event of the accession of new member states. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the guidelines recommended in this report provide a good basis for the future framework of the legal affairs committee, which has an important role to play in the process of verifying the declarations of interests of commissioner-designate.
written. ‒ i support this report, which deals with the types of damages to be paid, the financial capacity of those responsible, the payment of compensation and the liability of the regime. the report focuses on the importance of updating the existing liability system in the member states to ensure that 'polluter pays' is applied to traditional pollution as well as to environmental pollution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the liability, compensation and financial guarantee report for offshore oil and gas activities because these activities are taking place in increasingly extreme environments and could therefore potentially have major and devastating consequences for the environment and the economy of marine and coastal areas. this report welcomes the adoption of the coastal safety directive 2013/30/eu, which complements the environmental liability directive 2004/35/ec and the environmental impact assessment directive 2011/92/eu, and the ratification by the council of the protocol on offshore activities to the barcelona convention as the first steps towards the protection of the environment, human activities and the safety of workers. the report also calls on the commission and the member states to consider the possibility of introducing additional measures to effectively protect offshore oil and gas activities before a major accident occurs.
written. ‒ offshore oil and gas activities are increasingly being carried out further offshore and in deeper waters. some of these are also in locations that are heavily dependent on tourism, such as the mediterranean. more than 90% of the oil and 60% of the gas produced in europe comes from offshore installations, and offshore exploration and exploitation activities are currently taking place or are planned in the territorial waters of 18 member states. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013, although breaches of coastal security are covered by criminal law in many countries, neither the definition of the offence nor the type and level of minimum sanctions are harmonised at eu level. the report stresses the importance of updating existing liability systems in member states to ensure that a potential accident in their territorial waters does not negatively affect the future of offshore oil and gas activities or the eu as a whole. it is necessary to promote a harmonised solution as regards the conditions for a mandatory financial guarantee. this should be done in such a way that the effectiveness of the 'cleaner pays' principle is not compromised by setting too low a minimum amount of guarantee or by limiting compulsory insurance to insurance products only, which is why i supported this report.
written. today, offshore activities are taking place or planned in the territorial waters of 18 member states, and more than 90% of the oil and 60% of the gas produced in the eu comes from offshore installations. i believe that the commission should work closely with the member states to ensure that the systems of compensation and financial guarantee for oil and gas exploration and exploitation in the eu are brought to a satisfactory level. i stress the importance of updating the existing liability systems in the member states to ensure that a possible accident in their territorial waters does not have a negative impact on the future of the coastal activities of those countries or on the future of the eu as a whole if the accident occurs in an area whose income is highly dependent on tourism. i therefore invite the commission to reconsider the need to introduce common eu standards for the system of claiming compensation and redress. the number of coastal installations is likely to increase in the future, in particular in the mediterranean and the black sea, which makes it urgent to fully implement directive 2013/30/eu and to ensure an appropriate legal framework for the management of all coastal activities. i would point out that, in accordance with article 191 tfeu, union policy on the environment must be based on the principles of precaution and prevention.
written. ‒ eu action in marine and coastal areas must be geared towards achieving a high level of protection, as offshore oil and gas activities are taking place in increasingly extreme environments and can potentially have large and devastating consequences for the environment and the economy of these areas - and even cross-border adverse impacts. fisheries and tourism, and other sectors relying on good conditions in the common marine environment, must be protected by adopting preventive measures and devising effective practices. the adoption of the coastal safety directive 2013/30/eu is an important step in this direction and i call on the member states that have not yet done so to transpose that and all previous directives into their national legislation as soon as possible. i would also point out that the misuse or accident associated with the activities of companies should be evaluated quantitatively and qualitatively, taking into account all secondary effects. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. the commission should assess whether a horizontal european framework for collective redress would be a possible solution to this. compensation schemes based on common standards can enable cross-border claims to be dealt with efficiently and within a reasonable time, without discriminating against applicants from different european economic area countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the report is based on the principle of prevention and sustainability and the 'polluter pays' principle. the commission is invited to reconsider the need to introduce common eu standards for the system of claiming compensation and redress. the introduction of criminal liability at eu level could enhance the deterrent effect beyond civil penalties, thereby improving environmental protection and compliance with safety measures. the commission and the member states are encouraged to consider establishing a legislative mechanism for the compensation of damage caused by coastal accidents for sectors that could suffer severe consequences, such as fisheries and coastal tourism, and other sectors of the blue economy. i accept this report because it is necessary to build an effective system of recovery for damage caused by offshore oil and gas installations. this would encourage companies to invest more in occupational safety and, in the event of an accident, to speed up compensation payments to the sectors most affected.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on liability, compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas activities. i consider it of great importance to update the existing liability systems in all member states of the european union with a view to ensuring that any accidents within 12 nautical miles of a member state do not adversely affect the oil and gas activities of the whole of the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the costs of the measures in question. i also think it is right to call on the european commission to consider the need to introduce common union standards in the form of a system for submitting claims for compensation and for the removal of damage. i support the initiative to include in the system victims of collateral damage associated with the operation of offshore installations and persons who meet the general conditions for obtaining compensation.
written. ‒ this own-initiative report primarily seeks to extend the responsibilities of offshore oil and gas operations. in particular, it calls for the adoption of a union framework on liability in that segment, seeking harmonisation of rules concerning minimum liability for damage caused in the civil sector and recommendations for common mechanisms in relation to potential incidents. many amendments calling for more reasonable, i.e. minimal, commission interference in national policy in this segment have been ignored or rejected. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i support the rapporteur's proposal and believe it is necessary to ensure that the compensation system works in the best possible way so that all injured parties can be provided with a financial guarantee for the oil and gas activities in pučín in the event of damage. it is necessary to upgrade the current liability systems in the member states to ensure that some future damage has as little impact as possible on, for example, tourism, which is a very important economic sector of the european union, but also on the very future of oil and gas activities. the commission considers that the commission's approach to the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is appropriate.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo, given that the situation in that country is extremely serious and threatens to increase political instability due to the postponement of the elections by the current president kabila. it is particularly important to highlight the collapse of democratic standards and human rights protection in that country and the use of repression against political dissidents. it is necessary to develop dialogue and find a peaceful joint solution between the authorities and the opposition in order to maintain stability, curb violence and continue democratic practices and hold democratic elections. the eu should work with the african union in this regard.
written. ‒ according to the constitution of the drc, presidential elections will be held in 2016, although the current president, joseph kabila, has tried to delay them with various tactics. since the constitution stipulates that he is allowed to serve two terms, this automatically means that he will not be able to run again. the un security council called on the national electoral commission of the republic of congo to publish a calendar covering the entire electoral cycle, and asked the government of the republic of congo to establish as soon as possible a budget and code of conduct for the elections and the updating of the electoral roll. in february 2016, a national strike was held over delays in the organization of elections. during the protest, there was a brutal clash between the protesters and the defense forces. the un along with numerous other organizations have cited human rights violations committed by state officials during the protests. the european parliament fully blames the current president kabila and the government for the attempts to delay the elections as they directly threaten the peace and security of the republic of congo and calls on the authorities there to restore freedom of expression, association and assembly and freedom of the press. as i agree with everything that is written in the report, i voted in favour of this resolution.
written. i am deeply concerned by the deteriorating human rights situation and the increasingly restricted political space in the drc, in particular the instrumentalisation of the judiciary and the violence and intimidation faced by human rights defenders during the recent protests. it is imperative that the perpetrators be found, prosecuted and held accountable. i call on the eu delegation to continue to closely monitor developments in the drc and to use all appropriate tools and instruments to provide support to human rights defenders and pro-democracy movements. i also call on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to consider strengthening the mediation powers of the eu delegation in order to cooperate with the african union and support political dialogue and prevent further deepening of the political crisis and the spread of violence. i believe that the african union must do more to ensure that the congolese constitution is fully respected and to ensure that there is a sustained political dialogue among the countries of the great lakes region in order to prevent any further destabilisation. i remind you that peace and security of the citizens are the prerequisites for the stability of the state.
written. ‒ the democratic republic of the congo, as a signatory to the cotonou agreement, has undertaken certain obligations in respect of democracy, the rule of law and the principle of human rights i therefore express my concern about the move by president kabila, who has been trying for the past two years to postpone the elections scheduled for the end of 2016 and to remain in power beyond the end of the constitutional mandate. such treatment of the constitution intensified political tension, unrest, and violence. the situation of human rights and freedom of expression and assembly has deteriorated in the country and pressure has been put on non-violent activists, opposition members and civil society, including through unlawful detention. i call on the eu to take concrete measures as provided for in the cotonou agreement and to impose sanctions on the senior officials and members of the armed forces responsible for the violent suppression of protests and the paralysis of political dialogue in the country. the eu delegation should continue to monitor developments and provide all appropriate support to human rights defenders and pro-democracy movements. i call for consideration of the possibility of strengthening the mediation powers of the eu delegation. all political actors should engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue and prevent the current political crisis from deepening by refraining from further violence and provocation, and agree on a transitional period during which the presidency would be exercised under the authority of a transitional council in which the opposition would play a key role.
the european union is deeply concerned about the political situation in the democratic republic of congo. given the risks of instability in the country and the threat this poses to the region, the eu will remain involved in the situation. the member states agree that it is now necessary to harmonise their approach to the issuing of visas to holders of diplomatic and official passports. the drc has not convened an electoral body to organise presidential elections within the constitutional deadlines. the eu recalls in this regard its conclusions of 23 may 2016 and reiterates that the organisation of the elections is the primary responsibility of the drc authorities. the eu will use all means at its disposal, including individual measures to restrict those responsible for serious human rights violations, those who incite violence or who hinder the resolution of the crisis in an agreed and peaceful manner that respects the aspirations of the congolese people to elect their representatives.
in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution tabled under rule 123 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the following groups: verts/ale (b8-1310/2016), efdd (b8-1313/2016), ecr (b8-1316/2016), ppe (b8-1319/2016), alde (b8-1320/2016), s&d (b8-1324/2016) on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (2016/3001 (((rsp)). i support the call to the main political actors to engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue, to prevent the current political crisis from deepening and to refrain from further violence and provocations. i also support the call for the european union and its member states to continue to provide assistance to the people of the drc in order to improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable populations and to address the consequences of displacement, food insecurity, epidemics and natural disasters.
‒ in october, congolese authorities announced that they would postpone the presidential election scheduled for december 19 this year, leading to numerous protests by disaffected citizens, arrests, forced detentions, violence and the deaths of dozens of people. the current president of the drc, joseph kabila, has been elected twice in presidential elections, in 2006 and 2011. although the law only allows two terms, kabila has already tried to change the constitution to win a third term. it is believed that the current situation around the postponement of the elections is related to this and that the current president is again trying to influence the amendments to the constitution, which is unacceptable. we cannot allow the congo to be held hostage by one man and we must all work together to ensure that joseph kabila respects the constitution of his country, not to change it for personal interests, and to step down after the end of his second term as provided by law, all for the purpose of holding elections without interference on december 19. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and at the same time i call on the authorities of the drc to stop using force to punish citizens who have legitimately protested for their fundamental rights guaranteed by the constitution, while those in the highest state offices do not respect that same constitution.
written. ‒ i support the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, ms mogherini, on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. the constitutional framework and provisions are the supreme source of law and the basis for the normal functioning of society and the state as a whole. the current president kabila is constitutionally barred from a third term and it is imperative that the european union insists on holding elections during 2016, or as early as 2017. the repression that followed the political protests in september is an unacceptable example of the use of excessive political power and authority to suppress the actions and freedom of expression of the people. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and has been active in the fight against organised crime, including organised crime and organised crime.
written. - i support this question. sustainable access to affordable energy is essential to meet basic human needs and to meet almost all types of economic activity, and the way energy is produced and used can have a major impact on development progress.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on energy access in developing countries because i believe that energy management is crucial for economic and human development in the countries concerned. it is clear that access to energy accelerates development and it is therefore essential that the european union is involved in efforts to reduce poverty in third countries, which of course requires an active and coordinated contribution from governments and civil society. renewable energy in africa represents a huge potential that must be harnessed in a smart, balanced and responsible way. the international community must also work together to ensure universal access to energy, and i continue to support this resolution.
written. ‒ the population of the african continent is constantly growing, and half of its people do not have access to electricity. an additional problem is that most people's access to electricity is unreliable. the european parliament also called for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and to promote the development of a culture of peace and human rights. many parts of africa are already facing water shortages, with about one-third of africa's arable land already qualifying as dry land. the paris agreement stresses the need to promote universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries, in particular in africa, by strengthening the development of renewable energy sources. africa has the greatest potential in the world for renewable energy, but it also has the greatest backlog in electrification. the european parliament also notes that africa has a great potential for renewable energy sources in terms of solar and wind energy, and that this would enable access to energy for all, especially in rural areas. i supported this resolution.
written. i supported the european parliament resolution on energy access in developing countries which takes into account the sustainable development goals, in particular goal 7 on energy access, goal 12 on sustainable consumption and production and goal 13 on climate change. this resolution also takes into account the 'sustainable energy for all' initiative launched by the un in 2011. the resolution also includes the 'energy for development' initiative, launched by the european commission in 2012 to provide an additional 500 million people in developing countries with access to sustainable energy by 2030. energy based on a sustainable approach, which is affordable, reliable and secure, is key to meeting basic human needs and rights and is a key driver of development. access to energy is linked to security and geopolitical aspects, and energy issues can become a source of conflict. the resolution calls for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies and encourages the allocation of these released funds to effective social policies and measures to eradicate energy poverty in developing countries.
written. ‒ sustainable access to reliable and secure energy is key to meeting basic human needs and is a key driver of development, the foundation of most economic activities. in terms of this approach, the worst situation is in africa, particularly the sub-saharan region, where population is growing faster than access to energy. demographic trends in africa will have a huge impact on the ways in which land is used for crop production and the need for firewood. the heavy reliance on traditional biomass is putting at risk forests and scrub areas across the african continent - the continent with the greatest potential for renewable energy in the world. i call on the eu to support technology transfer and thereby contribute to the financial accessibility of these sources. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. i also call on the eu to include a gender dimension in all its energy policies. the example of the use of coal for traditional cooking clearly shows the harm to health and the environment, with women bearing a disproportionate share of the burden of using such materials. i welcome 'energy for development', the commission's initiative to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030, as well as the electrifi initiative.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ energy poverty is a global challenge, and it concerns europe too. given that half of those without access to electricity live in africa and that the continent's population is growing faster than energy access is expanding, support for third world countries is essential as sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is key to meeting basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, sanitation, a safe environment, healthcare, heating and education. the paris agreement stresses the need to promote universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries, in particular in africa, by strengthening the development of renewable energy sources i support this draft report because the availability of energy is important for all types of economic activity and is a key driver of development. in addition, energy access is linked to security and geopolitical aspects and, as energy issues can become a source of conflict, it is important to influence this issue.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on energy access in developing countries. i believe that attention needs to be drawn to the extent and implications of energy poverty in developing countries and to the strong involvement of the european union in efforts to reduce this poverty. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the participation of third countries in union programmes in accordance with article 4 of this regulation. in particular, i believe it is important to keep in mind the great potential of renewable energy sources, especially when it comes to solar and wind energy in africa, the high-quality and systematic use of which would provide access to energy in many rural areas. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's energy policy and on the implementation of the union's energy policy.
written. ‒ governments, civil society and other stakeholders in developing countries, with the help of international partners, need to act strongly and in concert to reduce energy poverty. the key driver of development is the achievement of sustainable access to energy, which also contributes to poverty eradication. at the international level, there are various initiatives to promote access to sustainable energy in developing countries, especially in africa, but the effectiveness is still not satisfactory. the european union should provide support and technical assistance in the field of energy in order to maximise the use of energy from clean, local and economically renewable sources and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. i believe that the european union should make its contribution to ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, including the poorest people in remote regions, and to reducing energy poverty. as achieving sustainable access to energy is essential to meeting basic human rights and needs, i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on energy access in developing countries because it correctly recognises the importance of energy in accelerating development and draws attention to the extent and implications of energy poverty in developing countries. the european union must invest heavily in development policy mechanisms and instruments towards third countries to help reduce poverty and to create a framework for sustainable development. the latter is particularly relevant for rural parts of developing countries that do not have access to energy networks or corridors. security and energy are strongly linked. various security implications can arise if a uniform economic and human development is established in developing countries. to this end, the european union must encourage local authorities to develop the potential of renewable energy sources in africa.
written. ‒ i support this report on the application of the european order for payment procedure, which will simplify, speed up and reduce the costs of litigation in cases involving more than one eu member state. it also allows for the free movement of european payment orders which are recognised and executed in all the countries of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure because i believe that this procedure allows creditors to obtain an order for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims in a simple way. the request for a procedure may be sent by post, and often by electronic means, without the assistance of a lawyer, and the order shall be enforceable in other member states without the need for any further formalities. i believe that the current delays in payments need to be accelerated, as they are a key cause of illiquidity, which threatens the survival of business entities, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and leads to the loss of many jobs.
written. ‒ the european order for payment is an optional procedure which can be used as an alternative to domestic orders for payment in cross-border court cases and was introduced to enable the quick and cheap recovery of amounts arising from secured and maturing debts of a fixed amount which have not been contested by the defendant. the european order for payment is necessary for the functioning of the internal market. the liquidity shortfall is caused by late payments, which pose a serious threat to smes, especially as a large number of jobs are lost. the procedure allows creditors to obtain an order for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims in a simple manner. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of scientific and technical research and technological development, in particular in the framework of the european research area. the european parliament welcomed the successful functioning of the european order for payment procedure in all member states so far, in order to simplify and accelerate the procedure for the cross-border recognition and enforcement of credit claims in the european union. since i agree with everything that was written in the report, i supported it.
written. i support the assessment of the application of regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council for the creation of a european payment order. the purpose of the european order for payment procedure is to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border procedures. the procedure is optional, meaning that it is available in cross-border cases as an alternative to various equivalent national procedures. in other words, this procedure allows creditors to obtain an order for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims in a simple manner. the request for a procedure may be sent by post, and often by electronic means, without the assistance of a lawyer, and the order shall be enforceable in other member states without the need for any further formalities. it also allows the free movement of european payment orders that are recognised and executed in all eu countries. the european order for payment applies to all eu countries except denmark. the european order for payment procedure applies to all civil and commercial matters where at least one of the parties resides in an eu country other than the one in which the application for the order is made.
written. ‒ the existing procedure allows for a quick and cheap recovery of amounts, but it still operates below the limits of its full potential, which is necessary for the internal market to function even more successfully. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. our main objective is to simplify and speed up the process of cross-border recognition and enforcement of creditors' rights in the eu. the long-awaited commission report does not contain an extended impact assessment for each member state and does not contain updated information on the functioning and application of the european order for payment procedure. i call for an extended and updated impact assessment, with member states providing the commission with accurate and comprehensive data. we need to eliminate differences in the application of the procedure between member states, otherwise european citizens cannot fully exercise their rights at cross-border level, which weakens trust in eu legislation. it is necessary to allow applicants to submit applications in additional languages, without which payment delays are often a key cause of illiquidity and threaten the survival of businesses and the loss of many jobs. in any event, the 30-day time limit laid down by the regulations should be respected. we also need to enable our citizens to submit applications electronically in the future, and i therefore welcome the work on the development of the e-codex system.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the application of the european order for payment procedure makes it easier to recover amounts in cross-border procedures. the procedure is optional, meaning that it is available in cross-border cases as an alternative to various equivalent national procedures. in other words, this procedure allows creditors to obtain an order for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims in a simple manner. the request for a procedure may be sent by post, and often by electronic means, without the assistance of a lawyer, and the order shall be enforceable in other member states without the need for any further formalities. the european order for payment shall be issued automatically on application, but the debtor may lodge an objection within 30 days. in the event of an objection, the execution of the order shall be suspended and judicial proceedings may be initiated.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the application of the european order for payment procedure. the dogmatic rationale for introducing the payment order institution is to enable the collection of due claims to be made more simply and efficiently. since the european union is a single market, it is necessary to codify effectively and then apply adequate legal mechanisms to facilitate the functioning of the union system. since bureaucratic obstacles to the recovery of claims still exist to a certain extent, it is necessary to provide for and regulate a procedure that will simplify the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. i certainly support the initiative of enforcement of an order in a member state which does not belong to it by territorial jurisdiction, especially since in this case it will not be necessary to activate the legal services which generate additional costs for citizens.
written. ‒ the purpose of the european payment order is to facilitate the recovery of money in cross-border disputes. the procedure allows creditors to recover undisputed civil and commercial claims more easily. the proposal significantly reduces the bureaucratic burden, as it also allows the application of the above in writing, i.e. by electronic mail, and does not require the involvement of a lawyer or the completion of other formalities. the order shall be issued automatically, and only on the basis of a prior application, and the debtor shall have the right to make representations within 30 days. when taking into account the cost of cross-border procedures, and the exceptional length of procedures in certain member states of the union, the settlement of procedures by means of a european order for payment is clearly a much cheaper and faster solution. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ i support the assessment of the application of regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council for the creation of a european payment order. the purpose of the european order for payment procedure is to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border procedures. the procedure is optional, meaning that it is available in cross-border cases as an alternative to various equivalent national procedures. in other words, this procedure allows creditors to obtain an order for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims in a simple manner. the request for a procedure may be sent by post, and often by electronic means, without the assistance of a lawyer, and the order shall be enforceable in other member states without the need for any further formalities. it also allows the free movement of european payment orders that are recognised and executed in all eu countries. the european order for payment applies to all eu countries except denmark. the european order for payment procedure applies to all civil and commercial matters where at least one of the parties resides in an eu country other than the one in which the application for the order is made.
mr. president, i congratulate the rapporteurs and the commissioners on a great job and a good report. we want to modernise the railway sector, make it innovative, encourage the use of new technologies and new business models. the aim, of course, is to provide all our citizens with the safest, best quality and cheapest rail services possible, all of which is brought about by the opening of markets and increased competition. however, we must take into account the great differences in the development of the railway infrastructure which is the basis for the development of transport and management services. for example, in croatia we are facing major investments in rail infrastructure, and the services market could not have developed without it. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the railway undertakings in croatia is compatible with the internal market. therefore, i call on the european commission and expect that croatia will be provided with specific business models that will accelerate investments in railway infrastructure, as well as the development of service companies so that the empowered can participate on an equal footing in this new model and package for railway services.
mr president, too many initiatives have sprung up in this house to establish costly universal governance models that unnecessarily undermine european diversity and seek to replace existing national models. this report does the exact opposite and i must commend it. the rapporteur acknowledges the diversity of port and port services management models within the european union and rejects the establishment of a single system. if something works well, it doesn't need to be fixed. i also welcome the insistence on competition, but i must express my concern about the imposition of minimum requirements for the provision of port services. of course, we aim to provide services by competent and reliable companies, but we must be careful that the minimum requirements are not too strict, because we will leave room only for the largest companies. in this way we would create an oligopoly and achieve the opposite of the effects that the rapporteur and all of us want.
madam president, madam commissioner, all the countries of south-east europe, and especially the countries of the western balkans which are on their way to the european union, have a high general unemployment rate. youth unemployment in these countries is twice as high, sometimes exceeding 60 percent. unemployed young people with no prospects leave their countries and thus leave them without a chance for development. on the other hand, unemployed young people are easy targets and targets of various kinds of radicalisation, from national, social, religious and any other kind of radicalisation. i therefore call on the european commission to help find a mechanism for youth employment in south-east europe, something similar to the youth guarantee that exists within the european union.
mr president, commissioners, the commission's proposals on clean energy for all europeans reflect the fact that the clean energy transition is a growth sector of the future and an opportunity for smart investors. this package, which will mobilise public and private investment of eur 177 billion per year by 2021, can increase gross national income by up to 1% and create 900 000 new jobs over the next 10 years. europe imports energy worth €1 billion a day. investing in energy efficiency reduces the need for energy production. by investing in it, we are investing in the european economy, we are investing in our homes, we are investing in our manufacturing, in our small entrepreneurs who are renovating our homes. it's better to invest a billion euros a day in our economy than to pay for energy from imports. the potential of biomass and biofuels based on the sustainable management of these resources should also be better exploited. europe and croatia are doing well in this.
written. energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the involvement of consumers in production are the cornerstones of the new energy package. this new package encourages innovative solutions, new technologies and better connections between different sectors. we are the world's first circular economy, and the new energy package is an extra incentive to keep it that way. however, these objectives are not matched by sufficient regulatory flexibility or the speed of investment in innovative solutions. we still have major problems with pollutants throughout europe that threaten human health and we should not passively watch these examples. to talk about a new package and not to deal with pollution cases like the one in slavonski brod caused by production in bosanski brod is to be inconsistent. according to the european environment agency, some pollutants transform into airborne particles that can affect countries far from the source of the pollution. the published graphs show that 63% of all air pollution in the netherlands comes from outside its borders. in the case of the czech republic, this percentage is around 70%, and the pollution emitted by the czech republic is as high as 80%. given that pollution knows no borders, it is essential to develop awareness of the need for cross-border cooperation and the implementation of joint projects with non-eu countries.
energy and the energy union are one of the 10 political priorities of the juncker commission with very ambitious goals: taking global leadership in the use of renewable energy, providing a fair deal for consumers and enabling energy efficiency. the european union is currently the world's largest energy importer, importing an estimated 53% of all the energy it consumes at an annual cost of some €400 billion. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market and the energy market in the union in order to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market. efficient energy management as well as clean energy are sectors of future growth and opportunities for smart investors. the paris agreement, which commits the european union to reducing co2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030, is proof of this, while allowing for the modernisation of the economy, the creation of new jobs in the green sector thanks to increased use of renewable energy sources and growth for all european citizens. according to the commission's announcement, this set of laws should lead to an investment of up to €177 billion of public and private money per year from 2021, which would increase gdp by 1% over the next decade and create 900 000 new jobs.
written. - i support this report. the gradual opening of certain union programmes and agencies for engagement with partner countries under the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is one of the many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in algeria.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's democratic republic of algeria in union programmes (16152/2014 c8-0152/2015 2014/0195 ((nle)) in view of the situation in algeria where assistance is needed to maintain stability, avoid radicalisation, restart the economy, reduce unemployment and continue the building of democratic institutions. the eu should also support the development of the algerian economy, including through the development of the algerian economy and the development of the algerian economy. such an agreement links economic cooperation with democratic processes and human rights and marks a new stage in relations with algeria where the eu must be effective in the assistance it provides to put an end to terrorism and violence and support the aspirations of algerian citizens to live in peace and stability.
written. ‒ within the european neighbourhood policy, the gradual opening of certain union participation programmes to partner countries is one of many measures to promote reform and modernisation in the eu's neighbourhood. in 2007, the council issued guidelines for the commission's work on the negotiation of framework agreements with a number of countries, including algeria. in 2013, algeria expressed its interest in participating in most of the programmes open to partner countries under the european neighbourhood policy. as the text of the negotiating protocol with algeria is in accordance with article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i supported this recommendation.
written. ‒ the european union's good relations with its neighbours, while at the same time taking care of the interests of the union and its citizens, are the best motivation for fruitful cooperation. the european union and its member states therefore enter into partnerships with their neighbours to foster better understanding and improve relations between them. in this spirit, i am also considering approving this protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing relations between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and algeria on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. the protocol lays down the financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes. these programmes aim to assist the public sector and governance, exchange technical assistance and knowledge to improve all kinds of relations, reduce administrative barriers, and facilitate the movement of goods and services through better knowledge of mutual procedures. the union's contribution to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance shall be limited to the amount of eur 500000000 in commitment appropriations and eur 500000000 in payment appropriations. for all these reasons, i supported this recommendation of the european parliament.
written. ‒ the european union is made up of 16 countries to the east and south whose hopes and future have a direct impact on us. under the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening-up of certain european union programmes and agencies to the participation of the enp partner countries is one of a number of measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union's neighbourhood countries. algeria, the largest country in africa in terms of area, rich in resources and with a population of 40 million, needs to continuously develop relations in all fields, from energy and education to transport and security. since its inception in 2004, our neighbourhood policy has promoted a number of important initiatives, particularly in the area of trade and the economy, and thereby stimulated the creation of ever stronger relations between the eu and its neighbours. partnership with our neighbours brings great benefits to both sides, that's indisputable. sustainable economic development and job creation, along with a general increase in respect for the rule of law and human rights in partner countries, need to be encouraged.
the european council welcomes the progress made in the implementation of the european union's external action programme, and calls on the commission to continue its efforts to ensure that the union's external action is consistent with the objectives of the union's external action programme. the objective is to establish financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol constitutes a measure of economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows for the receipt of assistance, in particular financial assistance, to be provided by the european union under the programmes. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. the signature and provisional application of the protocol therefore do not imply the exercise of powers under the various sectoral policies pursued by the programmes and exercised in the establishment of the programme. i support this report because i consider it to be one of a number of measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union's neighbouring countries.
the parties shall endeavour to cooperate in the implementation of the provisions of this agreement. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i support proposal for a resolution on the eu-algeria framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. the proposal is in accordance with article 218 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which gives the consent to the conclusion of the protocol. as early as 2007, the council issued guidelines for agreements with a number of enp countries, and algeria expressed its openness to the european neighbourhood policy in february 2013. i am of the opinion that the achievement of a framework agreement is in the strategic interest of the european union and that it is necessary to establish the general principles which will guide the union in including algeria in union programmes.
written. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the european union and algeria on a framework agreement between the european union and algeria laying down the financial and technical rules allowing algeria to participate in certain european union programmes. this will define measures of economic, financial and technical cooperation and allow the provision of humanitarian assistance by the european union to algeria in accordance with the programmes envisaged. i believe that the conclusion of this protocol is a good step towards improving relations between the european union and algeria and that this cooperation will contribute to algeria's further progress and the implementation of the much-needed reforms. the conclusion of the agreement with algeria is also one of the many measures to promote modernisation and transition in the neighbouring countries of the european union within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy.
written. ‒ i support the efforts of the algerian democratic republic to join the programmes of the european union on the one hand, and of course the european union itself, which has made this possible, on the other. it is therefore a recommendation of pier antonio panzer. understandably, part of the european neighbourhood policy is the gradual opening up of eu programmes and agencies to the possible participation of enp partner countries with the aim of promoting and ensuring reform, modernisation and transition in the european union's neighbourhood. as algeria has long shown, as early as 2013, an interest in participating in european union programmes, negotiations have started. after the approval of the european union protocol itself, the further objectives were to provide financial assistance, but also to set technical and financial rules. algeria has decided to make a big move. we might conclude that this is a small but important step both in relation to the european union itself and to its member states. by joining the union's programmes, algeria will advance, both financially and politically and diplomatically. this way, many doors open easily for him.
written. ‒ i support this report, which is a compromise text on fishing in the high seas of the north-east atlantic. this report provides the conditions to prevent significant negative impacts on sensitive marine ecosystems: deep-sea fishing will be limited to the area from 2009 to 2011; vessels will be required to report encounters with sensitive marine ecosystems below a depth of 400 metres. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the work of the european external action service.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing council regulation (ec) no 2347/2002. this recommendation, which i voted for, draws attention to the establishment of a zone where deep-sea fishing activities are permitted in eu waters and in the north-east atlantic for vessels whose total catch of these fish exceeds 8% on at least one fishing trip during the year. the commission has also proposed to extend the current fishing opportunities to the following areas:
‒ the european union will freeze the fishing footprint by establishing a zone in which deep-sea fishing activities are allowed, which includes the zone of targeted fishing activities undertaken in 2009-2011 in eu waters and the north-east atlantic. the commission will also be able to provide information on the fishing activities of the union fleet in the area of the north sea, including the fishing activities of the union fleet in the area of the north sea. the new measure aims to protect sensitive marine ecosystems more effectively. parliament also introduced new transparency rules, including obligations to inform the public about european vessels fishing for deep-sea species and to report all catches. the commission will also be required to provide information on the status of sensitive ecosystems, and the commission will assess this information annually and adjust the fishing zone. given that the council's position at first reading is in line with the agreement reached in the trilogues, i did not support the proposal to reject the council's position.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation laying down specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to amend this regulation by adding to it the following: the geographical restriction will apply to vessels engaged in deep-sea fishing and in particular will sanction vessels that violate deep-sea fishing regulations. in order to better protect vulnerable marine ecosystems on the seabed, the regulation provides for a depth limit of 800 metres and vessels caught fishing in vulnerable marine ecosystems at a depth of more than 400 metres will have to stop their fishing activities and move at least 5 nautical miles from the area. i welcome the new and stricter transparency rules which include the obligation to inform the public about european vessels engaged in such fishing and to report all catches. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the technical specifications for the vessels referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. the commission will also be required to provide information on the state of sensitive ecosystems, and the european commission will assess this information annually and adjust the fishing zone accordingly.
written. ‒ it is essential to ensure that all conditions are in place to successfully prevent negative impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems and i therefore support the adoption of the text without further amendments. in july, the fisheries committee voted on the text of the june 2016 agreement between the parliament and the council and approved it by a large majority. on 18 october 2016, the council adopted its position at first reading confirming the agreement. i am glad that parliament has succeeded in introducing special sanctions for vessels that violate deep-sea fishing regulations. in order to protect sensitive marine ecosystems more effectively, depth limits of 800 metres have also been agreed with the aim of protecting the seabed ecosystem and, in general, vessels caught fishing in sensitive ecosystems at a depth of more than 400 metres will have to stop their fishing activities and move at least 5 nautical miles away. the commission will also be required to provide information on the state of sensitive ecosystems, and the european commission will assess this information annually and adjust the fishing zone. transparency is a principle we promote at all levels of our union, citizens are welcome to be active participants in all our policies i therefore welcome the introduction of new and stricter transparency rules by including an obligation to inform the public about european vessels fishing for deep-sea species.
written. ‒ deep-sea fishing accounts for about 1% of landings from the north-east atlantic, and some fishing communities are economically dependent on deep-sea fishing. over time, it has become clear that the original rules for deep-sea fisheries are not sufficiently restrictive and can no longer ensure the sustainable management of the stocks. in addition, they do not address the problem of significant adverse impacts on sensitive marine ecosystems. i therefore voted in favour of this report which brings about significant improvements in the rules on deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic. this regulation was adopted after four years of political negotiations and the new rules should apply by the end of 2016. some of these include a ban on fishing with trawls below 800 metres, a rule that vessels can only fish in areas where they have previously fished to prevent further damage, an obligation for vessels to report encounters with sensitive marine ecosystems at depths greater than 400 metres and then move to another fishing area, more rigorous control measures to ensure that everyone follows the same rules, and to ensure data collection, scientific observers will have to board 20% of vessels fishing in eu waters and those bordering the eu.
written. ‒ i support the report by isabelle thomas on the case of the north-east atlantic: deep-sea stocks and fisheries in international waters. the eu has been given the task of establishing specific conditions for fishing both for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic. i believe that the protection of marine ecosystems, especially those that are highly endangered, is of primary importance. furthermore, as this concerns deep-sea fish stocks, it is necessary to establish a list of deep-sea species in order to work on conservation and further research related to this case. therefore, it needs to be investigated. it is necessary to raise awareness of the need to prevent the capture of endangered deep-sea stocks. those vessels or persons who violate these rules will be sanctioned. the european commission has decided that vessels that break the rules will be punished and that deep-sea fishing should be banned. the european parliament has gone a step further in this case, which i consider to be a positive step, by introducing stricter rules and an obligation for european vessels to give information on what they are fishing and to record every catch. this can reduce and easily reduce the catch of deep-sea species and conserve the fish stock.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament decision on the general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament because i believe that it is necessary to ensure greater transparency and to improve the functioning of the parliament. the commission is also proposing to amend the rules on the protection of personal data by means of a new regulation on the protection of personal data. i believe it is essential that certain procedures are simplified to make parliament's work more efficient, faster and more consistent, and i support the promotion of gender-sensitive policies and gender equality. the more effective implementation of parliament's activities leads to greater trust of citizens and to improvements in interinstitutional agreements.
written. ‒ the general revision of the rules of procedure aims to improve the functioning of parliament, clarify the rules, increase transparency and protect parliament from political elements that intend to sabotage its work. the amendments are mainly of a technical, legal and linguistic nature and clarify the provisions of the rules of procedure. the new rules increase transparency, clarify the order of voting on legislation, abolish double voting and tighten sanctions for serious misconduct. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i supported the decision on the general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. as in all member states, citizens also ask the european parliament to ensure the efficient and transparent work of its representative bodies. the proposed amendments to the rules of procedure seek to ensure that the work is carried out efficiently through continuous and reciprocal communication with other bodies of the european union. i welcome the limitation of the maximum number of questions per member to 20 within a three-month period. parliamentary questions are an important tool for representing the interests of the parliamentarians and the citizens. this measure seeks to focus problems on the most important ones, but also to give sufficient space to competent agencies, services and bodies to respond to questions competently, expertly and comprehensively. i also welcome the simplification of the legislative procedure, but above all i support the amendments which further emphasise the role and importance of national parliaments by checking compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. unfortunately, this article only applies to legislative acts and i think it should be extended to non-legislative acts. the european parliament should be able to intervene in cases of serious breaches of the union's internal rules, in particular in cases of serious breaches of the union's internal rules.
‒ the european parliament has, with this revision of its rules of procedure, acquired a new set of rules that will make parliament more transparent, more efficient, more open and more willing to listen to european citizens. the amendments concerning transparency are particularly important, notably the provision that meps will no longer be engaged in paid professional lobbying directly linked to the eu decision-making process. other provisions on increased transparency concern: more detailed presentation of declarations of financial interests of members in parliament; checking the up-to-date and accurate nature of declarations of financial interests; withdrawal of access cards from non-compliant registered lobbyists; withdrawal of access cards from persons who do not respond to a call to the committee of inquiry; prohibition of the use of accompanying persons' cards for lobbying purposes; allowing reporters to attach a 'legislative imprint' to their reports (in accordance with the presidency decision on legislative imprint). the s&ds have just insisted on better transparency rules and i am pleased with the results of the vote because most colleagues have recognised the importance of these changes and supported our proposal.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ in march, we voted for the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which is an important step towards more effective legislation. we laid the foundations for better cooperation between the eu institutions and stressed the importance of openness and transparency in terms of improving eu law for the benefit of eu citizens. the revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure is a credible step towards transparency. i support this proposal because the proposed amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament credibly introduce greater transparency and greater visibility of members and their activities.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a resolution on the general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament with regard to rules 226 and 227 of the rules of procedure. it is necessary to simplify the voting procedure in plenary, to respect the principles of proportionality and gender equality and to reduce the explanatory votes. members should conduct their duties independently of any instructions from parties, and should respect the conflict of interest rules and the code of conduct from the beginning to the end of their term of office. in order to ensure that the rules of procedure are respected and the articles thereof are implemented, they need to be updated in line with the times and the current situation of the european union and parliament.
written. ‒ i supported the compromise on the new rules of procedure which was reached by a working group of one representative from each of the political groups in the european parliament after 18 months of negotiations, because it was intended to clarify and simplify the existing rules. the compromise which i personally find most acceptable is the one containing the subsidiarity clause, because i believe that this principle is the cornerstone on which the european union must necessarily build a healthy future. the principle that problems are solved at the lowest level, i.e. where they arise, if possible, and that legislative acts are adopted at union level only if the same objective cannot be more effectively achieved by the adoption of acts at national or local level, is the sine qua non condition for the survival of the european union.
written. ‒ the need to improve the functioning of the rules of procedure, to simplify and clarify all the rules and to protect parliament from political sabotage of its work and influence as an important european institution requires a revision of the rules of procedure. the holding of thematic sessions on topics of great interest to the functioning of the european union will help to increase the frequency of discussions on the topics that most interest us. each club of members within parliament shall be entitled to report at least one such debate. the revision of the rules of procedure excludes any financial interests of members in lobbying in the european parliament and emphasises the need to detail the declaration of financial interests of members. parliament must be informed of the future recruitment and engagement of individual members. the changes needed to the questions and the introduction of the 'ping-pong' method will make it easier for members to communicate with commissioners, and written replies will reduce the excessive number of questions asked, which are only statistics for some members. limiting the number of questions to 20 in three months will allow for a clearer and more constructive debate and avoid unnecessary questions and comments. the behaviour of members of parliament leaves an impression on the citizens. it is therefore necessary to take a step in this direction and to sanction any form of hate speech, racist or xenophobic speech.
written. - a woman's basic rights are still being violated. i condemn all forms of violence against women and girls such as domestic violence, honour killings, forced marriage, human trafficking and female genital mutilation. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu's gender equality strategy, including on gender equality in the workplace, and on the implementation of the gender equality strategy. i call on the eu to sign and ratify the istanbul convention.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the state of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015 (2016/2009 (ini)) as the proposed document provides a comprehensive explanation of the main problems and the current situation on this issue. human dignity is the inviolable foundation of all fundamental rights and should be respected and protected in all eu initiatives. all forms of discrimination and violence in the eu must be condemned. the freedom of movement and residence of european citizens, enshrined in the treaties and guaranteed by the free movement directive, is one of the fundamental rights of european citizens. the commission should also be able to provide information to the member states on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the prison conditions in some member states are unsatisfactory. it is important to achieve the social inclusion and integration of migrants and refugees granted international protection, which includes rights and obligations and which is built on respect for the values on which the eu is built. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the funds allocated to the reception of migrants. it is necessary to support member states in their efforts to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism. attention should be paid to the rise in racism and xenophobia in the form of afrophobia, intolerance towards roma and jews, islamophobia and intolerance towards migrants. the commission should also be able to provide information on the use of the internet in the context of the fight against terrorism.
‒ the european union today faces a number of challenges in the protection of fundamental rights, notably in the areas of migration, integration and social inclusion, trafficking in human beings, the fight against discrimination, hate crime and hate speech, violence against women, the protection of children, the rights of minorities and so on. although i believe that violence against women is a violation of their fundamental rights and that we must all fight against it together, i abstained in view of the gender ideology mentioned in this report. it is totally inappropriate to include gender ideology in the report on strengthening equality and promoting women's rights.
written. ‒ i am concerned about this report on the state of fundamental rights in the eu in 2015 because it is not in line with the eu charter of fundamental rights. the report goes beyond the scope of the charter in many ways, which i cannot support because it distracts from what is important. violations of fundamental rights should not be taken lightly. human dignity and integrity are inviolable. i therefore welcome the condemnation of commercial surrogacy in article 82, but i believe that all forms of surrogacy, not just commercial, should be condemned and banned, because it is clear from the practice of countries that have allowed altruistic surrogacy that it opens the way to commercialisation, and in the end this practice cannot be considered entirely altruistic, but must be categorised as human trafficking. i regret that this report is very ideologically coloured, especially in the child rights segments. i believe that it is unacceptable in the context of children's rights to talk about gender ideology and thus suppress gender differences from an early age and open the way for children to be manipulated. this is also against the convention on the rights of the child. if we are talking about fundamental rights, i think we have to follow the guidelines of the eu charter of fundamental rights, which should be the starting point for this report, but it is not.
‒ in facing today's challenges, the eu and its member states must promote european values and protect all fundamental rights in all their activities. there are a few important messages in the report that are important to highlight. the union should also support the development of a european asylum system, which is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women, and which is based on the principle of equal treatment for women and men. the report condemns the lack of humanity shown at europe's borders, where those fleeing war and persecution are shown no compassion but walls and barbed wire. furthermore, it is important to emphasise that the refusal to provide life-saving sexual and reproductive health services, including abortion to save the life of the mother, constitutes a serious violation of human rights. the s&ds also called for the eu to take action to combat discrimination against women and girls, and to promote equal opportunities for women and girls. the report also stresses that the roma continue to face intolerance and institutional racism and that discrimination against them is unacceptable and harmful to european society. the s&d will continue to fight for the principle of equality and will not accept any form of discrimination against any group of our citizens.
‒ the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, democracy, the rule of law and freedom. despite the values that are at the very heart of the european union, we continue to see a lack of respect for fundamental values and human dignity. the commission's figures show that 75 million people are victims of some form of crime and for these reasons it is high time for adequate and rapid action on this issue. i supported the european parliament resolution believing that we would truly become a tolerant society providing equal rights for all. migration is the current greatest challenge and therefore intercultural and interfaith tolerance needs to be promoted through sustained efforts and enhanced dialogue involving all stakeholders in society at all levels of government in order to bridge differences and reduce intolerance. human dignity is inviolable and the basis of all fundamental rights, and must be protected and respected. citizenship education and intercultural dialogue enhance citizens' understanding of the importance of social and political participation, while human rights education raises their awareness of their own rights and teaches them to respect the rights of others.
‒ the european commission, the fundamental rights agency (fra), the council of europe and the un and ngos all report that fundamental rights violations are occurring in the european union and its member states. the charter of fundamental rights has become a full-fledged component of the treaty and therefore needs to be protected. the european union is a community founded on the values of respect for human dignity, human rights, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and the rights of minorities. the eu and the member states should therefore support and implement these values in all activities aimed at increasing and maintaining mutual trust and countering threats. the most important security challenges facing the eu at present are the fight against terrorism and the wave of refugees. in order for the eu to be prepared to help in the fight for human rights, it must first address the primary security concerns of eu citizens, and for that reason i do not support this report.
the european parliament and the council have adopted a resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. i agree with most of the content of the motion for a resolution and welcome the detailed analysis of fundamental rights in the european union. in particular, i believe that there is a need to implement the strengthening of security cooperation between member states and to provide an effective eu response to terrorism and security threats in the european union. i also consider the efforts highlighted in the recently adopted european border and coast guard regulation for the european border and coast guard agency, which provides for a mandate to provide support for search and rescue operations while guaranteeing fundamental rights, to be appropriate. i also call on law enforcement bodies in the european union to step up their efforts to combat human trafficking networks and their accomplices and to cooperate more closely with each other, with a particular focus on crimes against children. the emphasis on these themes in the context of the presentation of the situation of fundamental rights in the european union demonstrates the existence of institutional awareness of events that have negative implications for the lives of citizens of the european union and highlights the willingness of the european parliament to find a single solution to them.
‒ the european parliament publishes a report every year on the subject of human rights in the european union. this for 2015 includes a wide range of topics such as migration, human rights in general, sexual health, human trafficking, equality, an aging population, violence against women, lgbt rights, etc. the report adopted by the libe committee this year is significantly less controversial than last year's report and contains a number of positive calls for the protection of human rights, such as a call for union action in cases of trafficking in human beings and in that respect for the protection of victims, a call for the protection of the rights of minorities, persons with disabilities, a call for the protection of women's rights in the sense of strong condemnation of rape and female genital mutilation, and a call for the protection of the elderly from poverty. however, i cannot agree with the parts of the report that call for the protection of lgbt rights through legal institutions in a way that recognizes their right to marry because i firmly believe that marriage is exclusively between a man and a woman. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support the annual report on the state of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. the report refers to fundamental human rights and freedoms, taking into account the main aspects of today's social society: migration, integration and inclusion, security and the fight against terrorism, trafficking in human beings, hate crimes, violence against women, children, minorities, persons with disabilities, the elderly, roma rights and citizenship. human dignity is inviolable and must therefore be respected and protected. the report calls for raising awareness among eu citizens of the inherent dignity of all persons in order to achieve a more sensitive and inclusive society. the report not only promotes tolerance, peace and the security of european citizens, but also protects the most vulnerable groups, such as children, women, minorities, people with disabilities, the elderly and the roma. hate speech is increasingly heard among political forces, and xenophobia and other prejudices are on the rise among large sections of the population. this report will provide the tools and mechanisms for reporting hate crimes which i believe is the foundation for establishing a stable and democratic society in europe.
written. ‒ i support this report which recognises the cultural and creative industries (ccis), traditionally based on cultural values and creativity, as a strategic sector for job creation and sustainable development. the report supports cultural heritage and innovation and focuses on several measures to realise the full potential of this sector, while emphasising the importance of education, skills and training.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the eu's coherent policy for cultural and creative industries (2016/2072 ((ini)) as the cultural and creative sector is considered to be a growing part of the world economy, crucial for job creation. according to a study by the european commission, cultural and creative industries represent 11.2% of all private enterprises and 7.5% of all persons employed in the economy. the cultural and creative industries comprise more than three million businesses employing more than 12 million people and generating 5.3% of total european gdp. it is necessary to improve the investment environment and to broaden the range of financial instruments available to micro-enterprises and smes in the cultural and creative sectors with new and innovative funding programmes. the commission should establish a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the cultural and creative sectors and integrate eu support to the cultural and creative industries by adopting a comprehensive strategy. i support the establishment of a 'european prize for the creative and cultural industries'.
written. ‒ cultural and creative industries are based on cultural values, individual creativity, skills and talent with the potential to create wealth and jobs. they play a key role in preserving europe's cultural and linguistic diversity, enhancing a sense of belonging, contributing to the transfer of knowledge and safeguarding europe's tangible and intangible heritage. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. they are also a good tool for the social cohesion of the eu economy in terms of jobs, investment, growth and innovation, and make a significant contribution to europe's global competitiveness. the commission should also be able to provide support to the european parliament and the council in the preparation of the next european council. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on cultural heritage and to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on cultural heritage and the union's policy on cultural heritage.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries, which emphasises cross-sectoral cooperation to foster interaction between smes and research centres and universities in order to better integrate creative with entrepreneurial education and to strengthen the business capacity of creative entrepreneurs. the resolution encourages member states to build greater knowledge of the cultural and creative industries in education and training programmes and to improve their training, learning and qualification systems. the resolution calls for the establishment of a mobility programme for 'young innovators' to promote exchanges and innovation in the cultural and creative sectors; highlights the huge potential of women as innovators and entrepreneurs and the important role they play in the cultural and creative industries; encourages member states to provide appropriate financial support and training and stresses the importance of networking and the exchange of best practices. it also encourages member states to take initiatives such as the cultural bonus (e.g. the italian government has made available to 18-year-olds living in italy eur 500 that they can spend only on cultural uplifting activities such as visits to museums, archaeological sites, etc.). the resolution stresses the importance of ensuring the means for the digitisation, preservation and online accessibility of europe's cultural heritage and points out that women in the cultural and creative industries face the same obstacles as in other economic sectors.
written. ‒ the cultural and creative industries in the eu employ two and a half times as many people as car manufacturing and five times as many as the chemical industry they therefore play a key role in the social and economic development of the eu and its member states, contribute to improving the quality of life of citizens and are an important driver of internal investment. at their very core are authors and performers, and copyright protection is critical to the survival of these industries. it is the foundation of the income of these industries and therefore i call on the commission to find balanced legal solutions adapted to the digital age in the reform of copyright. it is also necessary to remove the false belief that investing in these industries is riskier than other types of businesses. the commission will continue to support the development of the cultural and creative industries in the union, in particular through the development of the european cultural heritage fund (echf), the european cultural heritage fund (echlf) and the european cultural heritage fund (echlf). a number of measures are needed in terms of contracts, collective bargaining, social and health insurance, direct and indirect taxation and compliance with european regulations to improve the mobility of artists across the eu and i therefore call on member states to develop and/or implement legal and institutional frameworks for creative artistic activity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the european commission recognises the importance of cultural and creative industries (ccis) for the social and economic development of the union and its member states. the eu needs to increase investment in new sources that will guarantee smart, sustainable and inclusive development. in the cultural and creative industries, a great deal of potential remains largely untapped. european cultural diplomacy, based on mutual respect for values and specificities, strengthens bilateral and multilateral relations between european and third countries, builds bridges between societies through people-to-people contacts and cooperation in all cultural and creative fields and thus contributes to better mutual understanding, while also acting as a driver of economic and social development. the cultural and creative industries (ccis) generate more than 12 million jobs and have a great potential for employing young people. i support this report as the cultural and creative industries (ccis) are a driver of economic and social development and i believe that they play a major role in representing european values on the international political stage.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the communication from the european commission entitled 'promoting the cultural and creative sectors for growth and jobs in the eu' recognises the key role of the cultural and creative industries in the development of the union, as they promote the cultural and linguistic diversity of the member states and strengthen their identity. the cultural and creative industries in europe employ more than 12 million people on a full-time basis, representing 7.5% of the european union's workforce, and industries using intellectual property rights contribute almost 39% of the union's gdp. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in this article to finance the expenditure incurred by the member states in the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ cultural and creative content is often taken for granted, but it is backed by millions of talented people who create billions of euros of value in the market. the cultural and creative industries are very important for our societies and national economies and should be given the greatest possible support. unfortunately, national governments very often, at least in the case of croatia, consider budgetary subsidies as support only, thus making a market-potent branch dependent on public finances. that's the wrong approach. the state should do more to protect the legal status of cultural and creative people and their copyright. they need to be made as easy as possible to do business in the marketplace instead of trying to subject powerful individuals and creators to collective norms and satisfy them with small payments from the budget. that's why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries. i believe that cultural and creative industries are the foundation for creating wealth in the country and creating new jobs. this proposal for a report will establish a coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for cultural and creative industries and will integrate the development, promotion and protection of cultural and creative industries into the eu's strategic objectives and overall political priorities. the cultural and creative industries play a key role in preserving europe's cultural and linguistic diversity, reinforcing a sense of belonging to a european and regional identity, contributing to the transmission of knowledge and values and safeguarding europe's tangible and intangible heritage for present and future generations. at the same time, they are concrete tools for social cohesion by contributing to the eu economy in terms of jobs, investment, growth and innovation, and they make a significant contribution to europe's global competitiveness. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, in order to supplement this regulation by establishing a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice.
written. ‒ through my amendments, i have tried to emphasise the need for a better position for women in the labour market and the possibility of reconciling private and professional life. women are often the ones who neglect their education and work for the sake of the family and therefore it is necessary to strengthen the network of childcare institutions, but also the institution for the care of the elderly and infirm for which women often take care. i emphasized the importance of trade unions and various programs to empower women economically. amendments that apply to lgbti people are generally acceptable. it is important to condemn attacks and discrimination and to require states to develop a strategic approach to combating discrimination against lgbti persons. we've been focusing a lot on human trafficking and prostitution. these are really burning issues. i also want to emphasize the importance of combating domestic violence through an organized approach through training of police, medical personnel, transparent judicial processes and the importance of safe houses. domestic violence is not something that a woman deserves or something that she has to endure to keep her family together. it's necessary to empower women to report violence to the police. the concerns for women's sexual and reproductive health and the availability of modern contraceptive devices should also be included in the report.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the rights of women in the eastern partnership countries because i believe that in order to strengthen women's rights in the countries concerned, in addition to respecting human rights, it is also necessary to work on general political and economic stability. the key points of this report, which i voted for, are the importance of including women in decision-making processes, including women in peace negotiations and political transitions, also including women in economic life and, of course, reducing violence against women. in the eastern partnership member states, vertical and horizontal segregation in respect of jobs for women in the labour market remains deeply rooted in cultural and social norms, which needs to be addressed by raising public awareness of the problem.
written. ‒ the eastern partnership was launched by the 2009 paris declaration as a joint initiative between the european union, its member states and six other countries. stabilisation is a key objective of the european union's external policy and of the european neighbourhood policy, in order to ensure peace, stability, security and prosperity. while women's rights and gender equality are firmly enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of all the partnership's member states, social discrimination and various stereotypes prevent women from better integrating into the labour market and participating in political life. i was held back in voting on this report because of the secular provisions regarding the right to life with which i disagree.
written. ‒ i cannot support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. while this resolution bases its starting point on the stabilisation of the neighbourhood as one of the key objectives of the eu's external and european neighbourhood policy to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity and emphasises the role of women (emphasis on women's rights and gender equality in the eastern partnership policy), it does not specifically address the real problems of women in the eastern partnership countries (armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine) and does not adopt measures to genuinely improve their rights and position. i am of the opinion that this resolution should pay more attention to women in positions of authority and to nurses, domestic workers and women with disabilities. the union should contribute to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of the eastern partnership, including through the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of the eastern partnership. in this respect, i believe that the member states in the immediate vicinity of the eastern partnership countries could play an important role in facilitating the creation of stronger links and in involving other member states in cooperation with the eastern partnership countries.
written. ‒ the eastern partnership was established in 2009 under the prague declaration as a joint initiative of the eu, its member states and six partner countries of eastern europe and the south caucasus: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine. in announcing the strategic priorities of the european neighbourhood policy for the period 2014-2020, gender equality was highlighted as a priority issue. although women's rights and gender equality are firmly enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of all the member states of the partnership, de facto inequality persists. the s&ds focused in particular on lgbti rights, women's sexual and reproductive health issues, the need for greater participation of women in decision-making and the implementation of economic policies as well as in trade unions, the equal sharing of unpaid work such as care and household responsibilities and the fight against forced marriages. i call on the eastern partnership countries to sign and ratify the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women, as none of these countries has ratified it. the eu needs to be more active in promoting gender equality through the many useful instruments of the european neighbourhood policy.
‒ the eastern partnership, established in 2009, is a joint initiative of the member states of the european union and the six partner countries of eastern europe and the south caucasus, and is based, in accordance with the prague declaration, on respect for the principles of international law and fundamental values including democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. in announcing the strategic priorities for cooperation for the period 2014-2020, gender equality was highlighted as a priority issue and defined as a new perspective area of cooperation. i supported the european parliament resolution because i believe that the importance of gender equality and women's rights should not be relegated to the background but should be included in relevant activities and placed at the heart of policy. the fight against violence against women is also a key challenge we face. i would like to highlight sustainable development goal 5, which calls for the eradication of all forms of violence against women and girls in the private and public spheres. it is the empowerment of women and their active participation in social, political and economic life that is crucial to achieving the changes we seek and, accordingly, it is necessary to promote and strengthen women's participation in political life and in leadership positions in order to raise awareness of their important role.
written. ‒ the eastern partnership was launched in 2009 and is based on the principles of international law, the core values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the 2015 riga declaration mentions gender equality as a promising new area of cooperation. it is important to emphasise that women's rights, as well as gender equality, are enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of all eastern partnership countries. however, women still remain absent from political power structures mainly due to discrimination. the report highlights the key role of women in conflict resolution and peacebuilding. the report also calls for greater involvement of women in peace negotiations and political transitions. this report aims to highlight obstacles to women's empowerment and to help achieve the goals of the eap and enp (european neighbourhood policy). gender equality is an area that will greatly benefit from enhanced cooperation between the eu and the eastern partnership countries. i fully support this report as empowering women and their active participation in social, political and economic life is crucial to achieve change in the process.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries, in view of articles 2 and 3 of the treaty on european union, which establish gender equality as one of the foundations of the european union. the eastern partnership is based on the principles of international law, which requires that gender equality and women's rights be integrated as a core value into the foundations of the partnership. it is necessary to increase women's participation in decision-making, to neutralize gender stereotypes that prevent women from entering the labour market, to take adequate legal measures to prevent and reduce violence against women and in the family. in line with the ongoing armed conflicts, it should also be borne in mind that women and children are the majority of the population affected by armed conflicts. the union's contribution to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance shall be limited to eur 50000000 for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. the report also calls for more active participation of women in peace negotiations and political transition.
written. ‒ the eastern partnership was launched in 2009 as a joint initiative of the european union, its member states and the six eastern european and south caucasian states armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. that initiative is an integral part of the european neighbourhood policy. the eu's strategy towards the six countries highlights gender equality as a priority, which is emphasised as the guiding principle for all relevant activities within the partnership agreement. this report by the femm committee highlights that, although women's rights are institutionally and legally recognised in these countries, various stereotypes still prevail, which lead to the prevention of women's greater participation in the labour market and political life in general. although i wholeheartedly support the fight for women's rights, i cannot agree with those calls by the european union that ask the mentioned states to ratify the istanbul convention, punish those who insult or stigmatize lgbt people and call for the introduction of mandatory female quotas for political candidates because i also consider it an unacceptable violation of the sovereignty of national states. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support the report by marije gabriel, particularly because of the very sensitivity of the subject. women are oppressed in many ways around the world today. the european parliament has therefore this year adopted a motion for a resolution on women's rights in the eastern partnership, in particular taking into account gender equality as one of the main principles on which the european union is based. there is the convention on fundamental human rights, but also other documents, rules, resolutions, drafts, and so on. stabilising the neighbourhood is one of the key objectives of the european union's external policy and the european neighbourhood policy (enp) with the main task of ensuring security, peace, stability and prosperity. in this regard, we must not forget the role of women. women have played a significant role in building peace around the world and have for a long time. the fact is that today they are often discriminated against, marginalized and oppressed. the eastern partnership (eap) is one of the two main pillars of the enp, based on the principles and laws of international law, the fundamental values of democracy, fundamental human rights, and not to be overlooked is the importance of gender equality and women's rights.
mr. president, any society is only as free as its most vulnerable members. a stable society will find ways to protect such social groups and create conditions in which they can contribute to its development. members of minorities throughout history have significantly enriched croatian society. but the valuation of minority contributions today is unfortunately reduced exclusively to material rights consumed by minority political representatives and a narrow circle of people loyal to them who use political blackmail to extract budget money. this misguided approach to valuing minorities has led to an absurd situation in which minorities, despite a whole series of positive historical examples, are not seen as enriching, but as unjustly consuming something that does not belong to them. we have to protect minorities. but in the case of croatia, it is primarily individuals who are supposed to represent them, but who are actually fighting behind their backs for their own personal interests.
written. the promotion and protection of human rights and democratic values are under threat worldwide, and despite the progress made in 2015, there are still serious problems hampering freedom of expression, thought, conscience and religion, and freedom of assembly and association. it is necessary to prevent repressive laws that negatively affect civil society and to strengthen a foreign and security policy based on democracy and the rule of law. in this context, coordinated action by the international community is indispensable, as only in this way can high standards of human dignity, equality and solidarity be achieved. in addition, i believe that the european union and its member states should fully implement the measures established by the eu action plan on human rights and democracy and insist on un reforms. the refugee crisis and the tragedies in the mediterranean make it clear that a greater contribution from all actors at the global level is needed.
madam president, in the wake of the political changes that swept the world in 2016, there's been a growing amount of talk about disoriented elites living in a world of their own and less listening to and understanding the electorate. this report is a great example of that rift between the elite and the common people. the rapporteur calls for the national interests to be disregarded and for european interests to be put first. he calls national interests narrow and obsolete. the only thing that is outdated here is the romantic supranational model which aims to create a european superpower in which everyone feels primarily european and puts the interests of the european union first. national identities and national states are a european reality, because they are put first by the vast majority of citizens. it is the citizens who are asking themselves what kind of europe they want, and they are almost unanimously rejecting further political integration. those who put their own political agenda ahead of the will of the people, rather than those who fight for national interests, have become obsolete and rejected in more and more countries.
madam president, madam high representative, the fact is that europe is in a precarious situation and faces major external and internal challenges, and is also surrounded by an arc of instability that is gradually spilling over either through terrorism or through migration. unfortunately, we have the example of russia violating the sovereignty of neighboring countries and threatening global and world peace. the report by our colleague, mr elmar brok, directly identifies three key challenges and perspectives in thinking about the common foreign and security policy. we are indeed at a crossroads in terms of defence policy. one direction is to maintain strong ties with the united states through nato and within nato. the second direction is the development of independent defense capabilities, independent of the united states, especially after trump's victory in the presidential election. i believe that the third reason is the most important - the future of the european union's defence is precisely an autonomous security architecture built on the cooperation and coordination of the member states, strengthening the interoperability of military capabilities, but also defining the key objectives of foreign and defence policy towards a fragile european neighbourhood. in the light of these challenges, it is essential to strengthen the status and position of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and to work towards the harmonisation of the foreign policies of the member states. this requires deeper integration, but we must bear in mind that only by strengthening the close cooperation of all foreign policy actors can we achieve that these set objectives are actually achieved. thank you again, mr. brock.
mr. president, it is an undeniable fact that uzbekistan has made serious and significant advances in the last few years. with this resolution, this decision, we will not reward uzbekistan for these moves but above all we will open the possibility for uzbekistan to establish lasting competitive and concrete relations with the member countries of the european union. and that message is extremely important. we want uzbekistan as a partner, we see the great strides that have been made in recent years, we want to encourage them to continue to take such steps towards strengthening the values that the european union has in their society and of course we want to say: we will follow our friends seriously, we will support our friends seriously, but also say when we disagree with them.
mr. president, i would like to make it clear that i support this agreement because, simply put, we will have a chance to talk less about poverty, about problems in countries with which we want to have partnerships and good relations. ecuador is one such example. maybe in a way uzbekistan was a little bit earlier, but these are models, these are ways that we're going to talk less in this room about the problems in the world, how we're going to talk less about poverty and the humanitarian aid that we're giving. this is a great example of europe showing its willingness and openness, and ultimately its economic strength - why not say so? - especially since an agreement has been reached with european banana producers. in this context, i think this is a commendable agreement and i expect of course that the commission will meet all the expectations of parliament.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, 30 years ago, during the study, we were taught that it was agricultural products that were subject to the greatest instability by far. i can understand that it was 30, 40, 50, 100 years ago, but i still can't understand how today we still have to talk about it. today, when we have all the knowledge, when we have all the possible mechanisms at our disposal, we are still talking about the same subject that we all learned together 30 years ago, at least those of us who are in economics or agriculture. so what i want to say to you, mr commissioner, is that we have to do more for our agriculture, to do much, much more. and let's not forget that countries like the united states, like china or brazil have decided to invest seriously in agriculture. with mr. trump elected to devote himself first and foremost to his country, or so he says, it is to be expected that u.s. policy will be even more geared to supporting american industry and agriculture. so we will have something to talk about in the years to come if we do not support our agriculture. but it is not just a question of us within the european union, that is, of us at the level of the european union, but i want to talk about the member states, but i want to talk about regional and local authorities, about all the mechanisms at our disposal, because we do not only have at our disposal the mechanisms that you, mr commissioner, or the european commission manage. we have many mechanisms and many tools at our disposal. and that is why i want to speak about the problems we are facing at the moment when we talk about the need to protect our agriculture and especially when we talk about what has just been proposed by the rapporteur, which is a new amendment that wants to speak clearly about unfair trading practices. from the fields to the trade, we have too much injustice to our farmers and that is why i call on you to really do everything to ensure that our agriculture gets the proper protection.
madam president, commissioner, price volatility in agricultural product markets is one of the causes of farmers' insecurity and affects their ability to produce and create jobs. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment. the income that should guarantee them a decent life is disappearing. this discourages their investment in modernisation, innovation, prevents young farmers from entering the labour market and generational renewal of rural areas. family farms are the most vulnerable link in the food supply chain. it is for this reason that legislation at european level should tackle unfair trading practices and provide a legal framework for the implementation of measures such as collective bargaining for longer contract terms, stable prices for agricultural products, reasonable payment periods and other conditions linked to production, aimed at a balanced distribution of production risks throughout the food supply chain.
madam president, the european council will be discussing youth unemployment, a problem that is very troubling to my homeland, croatia. since becoming an mep, i have stressed that insisting on mobility might lead to better statistics at eu level, but it opens up a whole host of other big problems. today young people from croatia easily go to other eu member states for work. the richer members are getting skilled workers, and croatia is seeing a sharp drop in unemployment. politicians on both sides are happy to rub their hands together. some because they import good workers who integrate quickly and easily into society, and others because they boast nice statistics. but few seem to understand that croatia and other members in a similar situation will soon be facing dire economic and social problems that more developed members will have to overcome. youth unemployment should be addressed at the level of each member state individually, rather than by bringing together people from less developed to richer member states.
madam president, for the first time yesterday, the foreign ministers did not agree on a common position. there is no consensus on the eu-turkey relationship. there is no such agreement between the member states or on the redistribution of the initial 60,000 refugees. meanwhile, we are witnessing humanitarian disasters from aleppo to mosul, forcing hundreds of thousands more to find new homes. the question remains whether the future eu-turkey relationship will be based solely on security arrangements or respect for democratic standards. the european union should not compromise its standards, but should be more concerned about its own security mechanisms. we need serious integration of security and defence policy. the union's inability to provide citizens with security may permanently alienate them from the common and direct them exclusively towards national solutions. it is good that youth employment and the revision of the strategic investment fund are on the agenda, especially after the increase in the amount for the youth guarantee in the next budget, but the fund will only be a successful project if it respects more evenly the geographical spread and the general economic conditions in the countries.
madam president, it is good that tomorrow on the council's agenda are both migration and security and economic growth and youth unemployment and social europe. however, it is true that the european union is absent at this moment in time. the international community has failed the test in syria. hundreds of thousands of civilians, women, children are going through hell right now. we have to be aware of that, and tomorrow is the council meeting. yes, we must ensure that humanitarian aid safely reaches those in need on the ground. we must make it clear that the situation in aleppo is caused by the russian bombing of women and children. so i agree with our manfred weber, russia should be extended sanctions. this is a policy of solidarity with the victims in istanbul. when we talk about turkish politics, it's something else. then we don't support the regime that erdoğan is trying to impose in turkey. and when it comes to the european union, i want to make it clear that it's good that our two great blocs are working together. we've ensured that there's no intra-party or party rivalry. it is very important that we keep the mainstream here, it is important that we give no room to populists or extremists, and i think that is our main task here in the european parliament.
written. ‒ i support this report on insolvency proceedings and administrators which contains annexes relevant to their notification. the rapporteur agreed with the aim of the proposal and its general terms and conditions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council replacing the list of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings, as it is necessary to update the existing annexes to the insolvency regulation in order to reform insolvency in poland. given that the original regulation does not provide for a comitology procedure, amendments to the regulation can only be made through a new regulation within the ordinary legislative procedure and not through delegated and implementing acts and i therefore support this report.
‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply from 26 june 2017, except for the part concerning the system of interconnection of national insolvency registers which will apply from 26 june 2019. in december 2015, poland informed the commission of the radical reform of its national restructuring law, with effect from 1 january 2016, and requested the amendment of the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation accordingly. the annexes to the regulations may only be amended by a regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure on the basis of the legal basis applicable to the original regulation, namely article 81 tfeu. the commission submitted the request in order to ensure that its scope is aligned with the existing legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation before the entry into force of the amended regulation. the report agrees with the purpose and content of this proposal in a general sense, and the commission proposal is technical in nature and does not contain a substantial amendment to the regulation. i therefore supported this recommendation.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council replacing the list of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings by adopting the commission's position at first reading. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the commission by the end of the first quarter of 2017 to allow the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of application of the rules on application of the rules on application of application of the rules on application of the rules on application of application of the rules on application of the rules on application of application. in view of the request of poland to reform its national restructuring law, which is in line with the acquis and linked to the application of annexes a and b to regulation 2015/848, the amendment of european legislation can be implemented by a regulation on the basis of the legal basis applicable to the original regulation, adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the two technical amendments take into account the position of the united kingdom and ireland on the commission proposal aligned with the protocol on the position of the united kingdom and ireland in respect of the area of freedom, security and justice. the third amendment concerns the alignment of the date of application of the regulation amending the basic act, i.e. regulation (eu) 2015/848.
‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council, the annexes to which contain lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners relevant to its application, entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply from 26 june 2017, except for the part concerning the system of interconnection of national insolvency registers, which will apply from 26 june 2019. in order to deal effectively with cross-border insolvency proceedings of debtors whose centre of main interests is in a member state, the scope of the revised regulation should reflect the reality of national insolvency laws. the commission should be able to adopt a proposal for a regulation on the application of the rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 909/2014. in december 2015, poland informed the commission of the radical reform of its national restructuring law and requested the amendment of the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation and the commission examined the compliance of the request with the conditions set out in this regulation. requests have been submitted to the european parliament and the council to ensure the adaptation of the existing legal framework of the polish legislation before the entry into force of the amended regulation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the application of this regulation. the regulation will apply from 26 june 2017. the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners relevant for its application are set out in the annexes to that regulation. in december 2015, poland informed the commission of the radical reform of its national restructuring law and requested the amendment of the list in the annex accordingly. the annexes to regulations may be amended only by a regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission has examined whether the request of poland complies with the conditions laid down in this regulation and has submitted a request to the european parliament and to the council to ensure that its scope is aligned with the existing legal framework of polish insolvency law before the entry into force of the amended regulation. the report agrees with the purpose and content of the proposal, but considers that three amendments of a technical nature should be included. the first two amendments reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland in the area of freedom, security and justice. the third amendment aligns the date of application of this amending regulation with that of the regulation. i support this report as it does not substantially amend the regulation.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of proportionality to the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. the commission has also proposed that the new regulation should be adopted by the end of the year.
written. ‒ in december 2015, poland informed the commission of the radical reform of its national restructuring law and requested the amendment of the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation accordingly. the commission has examined whether the request of poland complies with the conditions laid down in this regulation and has submitted a request to the european parliament and to the council to ensure that its scope is aligned with the existing legal framework of polish insolvency law before the entry into force of the amended regulation. i agree with the purpose of this proposal and its content in general. however, like the rapporteur, i consider it necessary to include three amendments of a technical nature. the first two reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland on the commission's proposal on the position of those states with regard to the area of freedom, security and justice. the third amendment aligns the date of application of this amending regulation with that of regulation (eu) 2015/848. the commission notes that the polish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. i therefore supported this report and voted in favour.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, and amending the agreement to extend the application of its provisions to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement (16384/1/2010 c7-0097/2011 2010/0323nle)). in particular, in 2011, the european parliament adopted an interim report in which it conditioned its consent to improvements in the human rights situation in uzbekistan, in particular the issue of child and forced labour during the annual cotton harvest. the latest monitoring mission showed that child labour in cotton picking has been almost completely eradicated, but this cannot be confirmed for forced labour. the uzbek authorities have taken several measures to gradually eliminate forced labour of adults and efforts in this regard should be supported. the european parliament considers that the textile protocol with uzbekistan should be agreed with a view to continuing the dialogue and existing cooperation. in the event that the uzbek authorities cease to act with a view to abolishing forced labour, this decision should be reversed.
written. ‒ in order to include textiles in the partnership and cooperation agreement signed by the european union and uzbekistan in 1999, the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european union and its member states and uzbekistan needs to be ratified. the european parliament had already adopted an interim report at the end of 2011, but the european parliament's consent was conditional on improvements in human rights in uzbekistan, especially with regard to child and forced labour during the annual cotton harvest. uzbekistan has also cooperated with the international labour organisation (ilo) which is responsible for assessing measures taken to eradicate child and forced labour during the annual cotton harvest. the report of the latest ilo observer mission showed that child labour in cotton picking has been almost eradicated, which cannot be confirmed for forced labour as there are visible indicators related to the exploitation of workers at work and during the recruitment process. i supported this recommendation as the uzbek authorities have made efforts and progress towards the final eradication of forced labour.
written. ‒ i support the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and uzbekistan, of the other part, and the amendment of the partnership and cooperation agreement to extend its scope to bilateral trade in textiles. the textile protocol should be ratified by the union and the republic of moldova. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exporting producers concerned have been granted mips in the past. in december 2011, the european parliament adopted an interim report in which it conditioned its consent to improvements in human rights in uzbekistan, in particular on child and forced labour during cotton harvesting. the report of the latest ilo observation mission from 14 september to 31 october 2015 showed that child labour in cotton picking has been almost completely eradicated. public authorities have implemented various measures to eradicate child labor, such as extended school days, penalties for violators, and the encouragement of parental, teacher, and farmer responsibility. in view of the efforts and progress in this area, i support the modification of the agreement.
written. ‒ the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement, concluded in 1999, establishing a partnership between the european union and its member states and uzbekistan, would be extended to bilateral trade in textiles by adopting a protocol and amending the agreement. more specifically, the provisions under the heading 'trade in goods' which provide for the granting of most favoured nation status on a reciprocal basis, trade without quantitative restrictions and at market prices, and the principle of free transit, would also apply to textiles. at the end of 2011, the european parliament adopted an interim report conditional on its agreement to improve the human rights situation and launched a dialogue with uzbekistan, which included annual hearings with representatives of civil society, the uzbek authorities and european and international institutions. the latest report of the mor observation mission from 14 september to 31 october 2015 showed that child labour in cotton picking has been almost completely eradicated and has become a socially unacceptable phenomenon. the same cannot be said for forced labour, although the uzbek authorities have taken several measures to phase it out. the work of the mor and the efforts of the uzbek authorities should be commended and supported and i call for the textile protocol to be agreed. the eu should continue to be an important partner of uzbekistan in the implementation of important reforms.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the european parliament is requested to give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and uzbekistan, of the other part, and to amend the agreement in order to extend the scope of its provisions to bilateral trade in textiles. in december 2011, the european parliament adopted an interim report, which made its consent conditional on improvements in human rights in uzbekistan, in particular the issue of child and forced labour. following its adoption, a dialogue was launched with uzbekistan in the framework of which annual hearings were held. public authorities have taken various measures to eradicate child labor. the european parliament supports the work carried out by the ilo to finally eradicate forced labour in uzbekistan. the efforts of the uzbek authorities should also be supported. i therefore support this report because i consider that the exploitation of workers and child labour is an unacceptable social phenomenon. the european parliament should give its consent to the textile protocol with uzbekistan. however, in the event that the uzbek authorities fail to act to abolish forced labour, parliament reserves the right to request the european commission and the council to take general and specific measures against human rights violations.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a resolution on the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral textile trade in view of the expiry of the bilateral textile agreement. the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan was concluded in 1999 and governs general cooperation between the union and uzbekistan. this resolution allows for the implementation of bilateral trade in textiles in the 'trade in goods' chapter of the abovementioned partnership agreement with the implication that all provisions of that chapter apply to trade in textiles. the commission considers that the measure is imputable to the state and that it is imputable to the state. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the illegal trade in human beings and to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. the ilo report confirmed that the practice of using child labour has been almost eradicated with the participation of the uzbek government itself by introducing various measures and implementing the recommendations of the 2011 interim report of the assembly. the european parliament should praise, encourage and give its assent as an incentive for such action.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the member states and the republic of uzbekistan, and amending the agreement in order to extend the application of its provisions to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. the government of the republic of uzbekistan has made significant progress since 2013 in the fight against child labour by adopting a law prohibiting the exploitation of child labour. i believe that the adoption of this recommendation would provide an incentive for the government of uzbekistan to pursue further efforts towards the total eradication of child labour and all other forms of forced labour.
written. ‒ i support this report, which is also a success of the s&ds' trade policy. thanks to the demands prescribed by our group, we have seen fundamental changes in uzbekistan, ending forced child labor and ushering in a new era of openness and cooperation. so we need to continue to work together to strengthen civil society.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, and amending the agreement to extend the application of its provisions to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement (16384/1/2010 c7-0097/2011 2010/0323nle) 2016/2226(ini)) given that a great deal of progress has been made including the adoption of laws prohibiting the use of defunct work, which has almost completely eradicated it. furthermore, the uzbek government is working to eradicate forced labour and has made significant progress, although subtle forms of involuntary labour still exist. the commission should continue to report to the european parliament on this, as it is expected that further dialogue, cooperation and continued pressure will be required. eu assistance to uzbekistan should be aimed at phasing out cotton monoculture in that country and reducing its dependence on cotton exports through economic diversification. the eu should use this agreement to ensure democratic reforms.
written. ‒ the textile sector, and in particular cotton production, is the main area of trade between the eu and uzbekistan. the eu should therefore make full use of the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to ensure that the uzbek authorities engage in a transition process following the sudden death of the president that should lead to better governance, strengthening the rule of law and democratic reforms. uzbekistan should aim to move away from monoculture cotton and reduce its dependence on cotton exports by diversifying its economy, which could gradually alleviate the catastrophic environmental situation. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i would point out that the textile sector, in particular cotton production, is the main area of trade between the eu and uzbekistan. in this regard, i stress that the eu should make full use of the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to ensure that the uzbek authorities, following the sudden death of the president, engage in a transition process that should lead to better governance, strengthening the rule of law, democratic reforms and significant improvements in human rights. i welcome the progress made since 2013 on the issue of child labour in uzbekistan, including the adoption of laws prohibiting the use of child labour, and encourage the authorities to further engage in awareness-raising campaigns across the country in order to fully eradicate child labour. i emphasise the role of the eu's diplomatic efforts in this process, in particular the 2011 parliament resolution which temporarily suspended the adoption of the agreement and led to the active involvement of the international labour organisation (ilo) and the world bank. i encourage the uzbek authorities to step up efforts to further modernise and diversify the agricultural sector in that country, with continued support from the eu, the world bank and other international donors.
‒ in 2011, the european parliament decided to postpone the decision on consent to the eu-uzbekistan textiles protocol and adopted an interim report on the alleged use of child and forced labour in cotton harvesting, which clarified that parliament would consider giving consent only if the uzbek authorities allowed observers from the international labour organisation to establish unimpeded monitoring to confirm the implementation of concrete reforms with a view to making real progress in the eradication of these forms of labour at all levels. the government of uzbekistan has adopted action plans to change the way cotton pickers are employed, promoted awareness raising and developed a monitoring mechanism to prevent forced and child labour. the latest report from the mor showed that the use of child labor to harvest cotton has become almost eradicated and socially unacceptable. the textile sector is a major area of trade between the eu and uzbekistan and the eu should take advantage of the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to ensure that the uzbek authorities are engaged in a transition process that should lead to better governance, strengthening the rule of law, democratic reforms and significant improvements in human rights. on this occasion, i therefore also call on the uzbek authorities to release from prison individuals imprisoned on politically motivated charges and to break the cycle of repression, arrest and conviction.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
‒ in 2011, the european parliament postponed its decision on assent to the eu-uzbekistan textiles protocol and adopted an interim report dealing with the alleged use of child and forced labour in cotton harvesting. in that report, it concluded that it would consider giving its consent only if the uzbek authorities allowed the ilo observers to carry out detailed monitoring and if the observers confirmed that significant results had been achieved. the government of uzbekistan in 2013 allowed the mor to carry out cotton harvesting supervision. the latest report by the mor showed that the use of child labour for cotton harvesting has become rare and socially unacceptable, although continuous monitoring is still needed. the elimination of forced and child labour is a worthwhile goal that requires additional support from the eu and the international community. i support this report because i believe that, due to the efforts of the uzbek government, parliament should give its consent to the eu-uzbekistan textiles protocol. this will provide an incentive for the government of uzbekistan to continue its efforts to fully eradicate child labour and all other forms of forced labour, as human rights violations continue to be reported in the country.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution extending the bilateral textile trade agreement between the member states of the european union and the republic of uzbekistan, given that the uzbek government has made significant progress in the fight against child labour by introducing a law banning child labour. i consider the adoption of this law to be a positive step towards the goal of the total eradication of child labour, and this agreement is a sign of dialogue and cooperation between the european union and uzbekistan. however, uzbekistan also has a problem of forced labour for adults and this resolution provides for the possibility of taking general or specific measures in case of failure to respect human rights. however, i believe that uzbekistan will fulfil its obligation to abolish forced labour for adults and to organise awareness raising campaigns and to introduce an assessment of the implementation of international treaties in this area.
written. ‒ i have supported the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, and amending the agreement in order to extend the application of its provisions to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. the purpose of this proposal is to approve, on behalf of the european union, the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part. the provisional resolution of parliament states that the union is one of the main importers of cotton from uzbekistan, estimated imports into the union ranging from 6% to 23% of uzbek cotton over the last 10 years. therefore, i consider it important to extend the provisions to bilateral trade in textiles. i also strongly condemn forced labour and child labour and support the european parliament's reforms to eradicate these two problems.
written. ‒ i support this report on the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru (accession of ecuador).
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador, as this would give its consent to ecuador's accession to the agreement. ecuador is in a difficult regional and international economic situation due to reduced exports, falling oil prices and the earthquake that hit the country. i believe that the agreement will allow the continuation of the policies of incentives for economic and social sustainable development. it is certainly a win-win situation and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states and colombia and peru was signed in brussels in 2012, and in the same year the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility of accession to the agreement by other member states of the andean community, and the eu and ecuador concluded negotiations on such accession in 2014. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the scheme to the export of certain agricultural products to ecuador. the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, its progressive and flexible implementation will be a step forward towards the establishment of an alliance with important countries that are experiencing rapid growth in the region. i therefore supported this recommendation.
written. ‒ the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, is a major step forward in the eu's relations with ecuador, which has become an important regional partner of the eu and shares similar views. the agreement provides for the gradual opening of markets for goods, services, public procurement and investment, including the elimination of most customs duties. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the agreement also contains a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and seeks to ensure predictable and stable environmental conditions for investors and entities from both sides. the agreement will enable both parties to develop even closer bilateral relations and will serve as an incentive for further economic and political integration in the andean region. the eusr shall also provide the union with the necessary technical and financial assistance to ensure the effective implementation of the mandate of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i support this proposal because it contributes to better relations between the eu member states and ecuador.
written. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states and colombia and peru provides for the possibility of accession of other andean community member states and in november 2015 the european parliament adopted a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the agreement, welcoming the conclusion of the earlier negotiations and encouraging its full entry into force to spur reform policies for economic and social sustainable development. ecuador is currently in a difficult economic situation and the government's revenues are insufficient to meet its financial needs. the commission also notes that the exporting producers concerned have not provided any evidence that the exporting producers concerned have been granted preferential treatment. in addition, an earthquake of magnitude 7.8 struck the country this year, and the cost of rebuilding is estimated at about three billion u.s. dollars. accession to the agreement brings a number of necessary economic and political benefits and guarantees a commitment to respect and implement international treaties and agreements in the field of labour rights and environmental protection. i call on the competent institutions to closely monitor the political situation and the fundamental rights situation in that country and to report regularly to the european parliament on the implementation of the agreement. the agreement will enable both parties to develop even closer bilateral relations and will also serve as an incentive for further integration in the andean region.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, represents a major step forward in eu relations with ecuador. the agreement provides for the opening of markets for goods, services, government procurement and investment. in addition, the agreement contains a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and aims to ensure predictable and stable conditions for investors. i support this agreement because it will increase the eu's presence in south america and complete the regional dimension of the andean countries now linked to the union.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement (accession of ecuador) given that the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement was signed on 26 june 2012 and has been in force since march 2013. article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility of accession of other states, and the eu and ecuador conclude such negotiations on 17 july 2014. this agreement allows the european union to benefit from its presence in south america and the accession of ecuador is intended to create greater integration among existing partners. the european union would thus take appropriate action to prevent a negative trend in the reorientation of south america towards asia and the pacific.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal to conclude the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru, taking into account the accession of ecuador, as i considered the conclusion of this protocol to be a step forward in relations with very important countries in the latin american region. the rapid and full entry into force of this agreement will enable ecuador to continue the economic and socially sustainable development of the country. in addition to developing closer bilateral relations and political dialogue, the agreement provides for the gradual opening of markets for goods, services, public procurement and investment, including the abolition of most customs duties. due to the fall in oil prices and other economic circumstances, as well as the earthquake in april, ecuador is currently in a difficult economic situation. i believe that the implementation of this agreement will be of great benefit to the recovery and progress of his economy.
written. ‒ i support helmut scholz's recommendation to take ecuador into account for the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru. this protocol was signed about a month ago in brussels. the european union was still awaiting approval on this case. ecuador, as a socialist state, had to adjust to colombia and peru, and eventually accepted most of the provisions agreed with the other two partners during the negotiations. the accession of ecuador to this agreement required certain reforms. i welcome ecuador's efforts to become a member of this agreement, along with colombia and peru. this is certainly another example of how much can be gained by effort and positive reform. so ecuador took the lead and made a move, which the eu recognized. the global picture of this country shows that progress has been made in many areas, although some shortcomings, as expected, still remain. access by ecuador will bring great benefits to the integration of the countries of the andean region.
written. ‒ i support this report on the eu-norway agreement to ensure continued mutual access for danish, norwegian and swedish fishing vessels to conserve and sustainably exploit the living resources in the skagerrak.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, sweden and norway, as this gives the consent to the conclusion of the agreement. the agreement is in line with the un convention on the law of the sea and supports historical fishing rights in that area. the commission has also taken the view that the fisheries sector should be given a high priority in the future.
written. ‒ the agreement on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak and kattegat between denmark, norway and sweden entered into force in 1967. that agreement, supplemented by the bilateral fisheries agreement between the european union and norway of 1980, allowed the three states to borrow access to fisheries up to four nautical miles from their baselines in the skagerrak and kattegat. this agreement further supports the historical fishing rights in that area and will be useful for the implementation of the reformed common fisheries policy in the kattegat and skagerrak. having regard to the recommendation of the committee on fisheries, parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of this agreement. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ the eu's common fisheries policy provides for a system of management of fish stocks in waters that upholds the historical rights of fishermen. the commission has therefore entered into formal negotiations with norway on behalf of the eu with a view to establishing a replacement agreement on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak and kattegat between denmark, norway and sweden. the new agreement is consistent with the un convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 un fish stocks agreement and subsequent related provisions in other agreements. it guarantees vessels from denmark, norway and sweden continued exclusive mutual access to waters more than four nautical miles from their baselines and provides those two member states and norway with continued mutual access to each other's waters in the skagerrak and kattegat. at the same time, it shall ensure that reasonable measures are taken to conserve and manage fisheries in the area. the fishing tradition predates the formation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and the much later creation of exclusive economic zones. respect for historical fishing rights is of the utmost importance and i therefore supported this resolution giving my assent to the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden.
written. ‒ traditionally, fishermen do not fish in certain waters, but catch certain species in waters where these species can be found. the kattegat and skagerrak are typical examples and the older traditions of territorial waters recognition and the principle that fishermen from denmark, sweden and norway should enjoy a historical right to fish in that area should be protected. the previously existing tripartite agreement of 1966, supplemented by the bilateral fisheries agreement between the european union and norway of 1980, allowed those states to borrow access to fisheries within four nautical miles of their baselines in the skagerrak and kattegat. in view of recent developments in international law, norway considered that the existing agreement was not in conformity with the provisions of the law of the sea and in july 2009 formally announced its wish to terminate the agreement it ceased to be valid on 7 august 2012. norway has since entered into formal negotiations with the commission with a view to establishing a replacement agreement consistent with the un convention on the law of the sea, which was subsequently signed on 15 january 2015. it provides for continued mutual access by those states to each other's waters in the skagerrak and kattegat and provides for prudent conservation and management measures for fisheries in that area.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the agreement on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak and kattegat between denmark, norway and sweden grants those states exclusive mutual access to waters more than four nautical miles from their baselines, while ensuring sound conservation and management measures for fisheries in that area. traditionally, fishermen do not fish in specific waters: they hunt for specific stocks or species and fish in waters where those stocks or species can be found. this tradition is older than the formation of states and the recognition of territorial waters, and the kattegat and skagerrak are typical examples of this. the fact that two of those states are eu member states does not change the principle that fishermen from all three states should enjoy the historical right to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat. it is of the utmost importance that these historic fishing rights are respected. i therefore support this report as this agreement further supports the historical fishing rights in that area and will be useful for the implementation of the reformed common fisheries policy in the kattegat and skagerrak.
written. ‒ the agreement on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak and kattegat regulates the rules for the danish, norwegian and swedish flagged prawns and has been in force since 1967. following the accession of denmark and sweden to the european union, it was supplemented by a bilateral fisheries agreement between the european union and norway, but now needs to be aligned with the principles of normal coastal state jurisdiction within the meaning of the un convention on the law of the sea and not to correspond to modern conservation and management principles. as in the previous agreement, vessels from denmark, norway and sweden are guaranteed exclusive mutual access to waters more than four nautical miles from their baselines and are provided with sound conservation and management measures for fisheries in that area. the agreement also provides for control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state. since i believe that this is a way of upholding the historical fishing rights of those countries in the kattegat and skagerrak, i have supported this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the report by jorna dohrmann on the agreement between the european union and norway on the granting of access to fishing in the skagerrak to vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden. the new agreement contains an exclusive right of access for vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other's own waters beyond 4 nautical miles from the baselines and thus ensures continuous reciprocal access for two member states (denmark and sweden) and a non-member state (norway) to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, while at the same time ensuring fisheries conservation and management measures in that area. this agreement has succeeded in correcting and regulating the relations between these countries relating to fishing in the area. for these purposes, the area is considered to be the high seas. the vessels of sweden, denmark and norway flying these flags have therefore reciprocal access to the waters belonging to them. at the same time, conservation measures for fisheries in those areas and management are ensured.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden, as the agreement respects the historical rights of fishermen from denmark, sweden and norway and does not affect the rights of fishermen from other countries. in addition, i support the implementation of the reformed eu fisheries management system and measures aimed at effective fisheries management and water conservation, and therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the report highlights the fact that fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden traditionally fish together in the kattegat and skagerrak. the agreement respects the historical fishing rights of fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden in the kattegat and skagerrak, without prejudice to the rights of fishermen from other countries, while also ensuring that appropriate fisheries management and conservation measures are taken in those waters. it also supports the implementation of a reformed eu fisheries management system in line with the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy, in particular the introduction of a landing obligation and mandatory measures to maintain stocks above levels that allow for the achievement of maximum sustainable yield. it is necessary that access to the internal market for all third countries is based on reciprocity and that, in the case of norway, all customs duties on food products from the eu, including fishery products, must be in accordance with the agreement on the european economic area. the commission therefore has a duty to ensure that the customs duties on food and fishery products from the eu are not set in a way that is contrary to the principles of free trade. i supported this report.
written. ‒ i have supported this non-legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden. the agreement is consistent with the un convention on the law of the sea and subsequent related provisions of other agreements. the fact that two of those countries have become eu member states has not changed the principle that fishermen from all three countries should enjoy the historical right to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat. it is of the utmost importance that these historic fishing rights are respected. this tradition predates the formation of states and the recognition of territorial waters, as well as the much later exclusive economic zones. kattegat and skagerrak are typical examples of this. swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing the same stocks together in these waters since the middle ages, and perhaps even longer. this agreement provides for continued mutual access to each other's waters in the skagerrak and kattegat while ensuring sound conservation and management measures for fisheries in the area.
written. ‒ traditionally, fishermen do not fish in certain waters, but catch certain species in waters where these species can be found. the kattegat and skagerrak are typical examples and the older traditions of territorial waters recognition and the principle that fishermen from denmark, sweden and norway should enjoy a historical right to fish in that area should be protected. the previously valid agreement allowed those states to borrow access to fisheries up to four nautical miles from their baselines in the skagerrak and kattegat. in view of recent developments in international law, norway formally announced its wish to terminate the agreement in 2009 it expired in 2012. norway has since entered into formal negotiations with the commission with a view to establishing a replacement agreement consistent with the un convention on the law of the sea, which was subsequently signed on 15 january 2015. it provides for continued mutual access by those states to each other's waters in the skagerrak and kattegat and provides for prudent conservation and management measures for fisheries in that area. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden does not affect the rights of fishermen from other countries and guarantees that appropriate fisheries management and conservation measures are taken in those waters. the implementation of the reformed eu fisheries management system established in accordance with the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy is also supported. the european parliament stresses that for all third countries access to the internal market must be based on reciprocity and that in the case of norway all customs duties on food products from the eu, including fishery products, must be in accordance with the agreement on the european economic area. instructs its president to forward this resolution to the council and the commission, and to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the kingdom of norway. the commission's task is to ensure that customs duties on eu food and fishery products are not set in a way that is contrary to the principles of free trade in food products. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a resolution on the eu-norway agreement on mutual access to fisheries in the skagerrak area in view of the agreement signed on 15 january 2015. this agreement provides for the authorised access of vessels from denmark, norway and sweden in each other's waters beyond 4 nautical miles from the baselines. although the initial agreement between these countries was signed back in 1966 and then renewed for two five-year periods, norway considers that the existing agreement is not in line with the current provisions of the law of the sea, in particular with regard to the implementation of the 1982 un convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 un fish stocks agreement. the new agreement continues to guarantee access to the waters for vessels from denmark, norway and sweden, but provides for conservation and management measures for fisheries. the commission has also established that the north sea fishing industry is not subject to the controls provided for in article 4 of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden, as fishermen from these three countries traditionally fish together in the kattegat and skagerrak and it respects the historical rights of fishermen. i consider it very important that the agreement takes appropriate measures for fisheries management and conservation in those waters. the agreement on mutual access to fisheries in this area has been in force since 1967, but the accession of denmark and sweden to the european union and changes in international fisheries law have made it necessary to update this agreement. the amendments continue to guarantee denmark, norway and sweden mutual access to the waters of the skagerrak and kattegat and promote conservation and management measures for fisheries in that area.
written. ‒ i support this report on the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision authorising the european police office (europol) to conclude the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol (10343/2016 c8-0266/2016 2016/0810(cns)) as it allows for the exchange of information, including the exchange of personal data involving expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods and support in individual criminal investigations. there are operational needs for europol's operational cooperation with georgia, which is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, especially as it is a transit country for so-called foreign fighters.
written. ‒ in accordance with article 23 (2) of the current council decision on europol, the council authorises the conclusion of an agreement on international cooperation with third countries or international organisations after consulting the european parliament. the parties shall cooperate in the exchange of information and in the exchange of information on the implementation of this agreement. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the cooperation agreement to include the exchange of information between europol and georgia. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods and support in individual criminal investigations. the joint supervisory body of europol gave a positive opinion on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement, taking into account the level of data protection in georgia. since there are clear operational needs to deepen europol's cooperation with georgia, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support this proposal for an operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia as it will allow for the exchange of information, including expertise, general status reports, results of strategic analyses, exchange of information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods and support in individual criminal investigations. the commission shall be assisted by the european data protection supervisor. according to europol, georgia is increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, especially as it is a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. in this regard, the conclusion of a strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would therefore support and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is by definition international. i support this proposal because the security of eu citizens must not be compromised.
written. ‒ georgia is a close eu neighbour and a potential candidate country. we have developed relations with georgia in many areas and our partnership in the fight against terrorism and organised crime is becoming increasingly important because of the clear operational need to deepen europol's cooperation with georgia, an agreement on strategic and operational cooperation is needed, which would strengthen the fight against these international challenges. the agreement will allow for the exchange of information, including the exchange of personal data. i would like to stress that it is disappointing that the european parliament cannot exercise full democratic control in this procedure.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ this proposal concerns the authorisation of the conclusion of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia which will allow for the exchange of information, including the exchange of personal data. the conclusion of that new international agreement is proposed on the basis of the council decision on europol (decision 2009/371/jha). on 11 may 2016, a new europol regulation (2016/794/eu) entered into force, which significantly amended the procedure for the conclusion of international agreements and the relevant provisions and measures for the protection of personal data of european citizens. while it is disappointing that the european parliament cannot exercise full democratic control in this procedure, it should be noted that the commission should assess the provisions, in particular those relating to data protection, and inform parliament of the results of such assessment and, if necessary, initiate the procedure for the reopening of negotiations. i support the resolution on the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement, including on the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement. the conclusion of this agreement would therefore support and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a resolution on the agreement and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol in accordance with article 23 (2) of the council decision on europol. the operational and strategic agreement between the european police office and georgia shall provide for the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information. in order to ensure the proper functioning of europol, the european union shall be responsible for the proper functioning of europol's internal security system. as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters, georgia has become one of the key partners of the european union in establishing an organised mechanism to reduce and control the penetration of members of terrorist groups into the territory of the european union.
‒ georgia is an increasingly important partner of the european union in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. the proposed operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol will create conditions for deepening the european union's cooperation with georgia in terms of enhanced information exchange. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the information to be provided by the european data protection supervisor to the european data protection supervisor. as i believe that the european union will greatly benefit from the conclusion of this agreement and from deepening cooperation with georgia as a key partner in the eastern partnership, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in spain, mainly in the comunidad valenciana region and the city of sagunto, which concerns 250 overstaffed employees from bosal s.a.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request by spain egf/2016/004es/comunidad valenciana automotive industry) as 250 workers affected by the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis have been declared redundant. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf, in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the egf regulation. i therefore support this report in order to help the spanish region concerned and the workers made redundant by various measures of vocational guidance, recruitment mediation, promotion of entrepreneurship and the speediest possible integration into the labour market.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers facing the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. on 8 november 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration of workers following the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to provide additional information on the number of employees in the union. the amount of eur 856 800 is hereby mobilised from the egf to cover the payment of this claim. spain provided all the necessary guarantees regarding the access to and the implementation of the proposed measures. the measures will be complementary to those financed by the structural funds. that's why i endorsed this report.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the commission has received a request for information from the applicant, the applicant's representative in the union, concerning the second call for tenders for the second call for tenders for the second call for tenders for the second call for tenders for the second call for tenders for the third call for tenders for the second call for tenders for the fourth call for tenders for the second call for tenders for the fourth call for tenders for the fourth call for tenders for the fifth call for tenders for the sixth call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders for the seventh call for tenders. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the request was sent to the commission on 21 june 2016 and the commission concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund were met. there is therefore no reason not to support the mobilisation of the fund. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. i also welcome the package of measures announced by spain, which are geared towards education and vocational training and include various employment incentives. it is important to ensure that citizens recover from the consequences of this crisis as soon as possible and to help them with adequate measures to ensure the creation of new jobs.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance and reintegration into the labour market to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world patterns of trade or the global financial and economic crisis. union financial assistance to workers should be dynamic and as effective as possible. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020. the european parliament stresses that the affected regions face a relatively large group of older workers who are, at the same time, redundant and do not have the skills that the local labour market requires. on 21 june 2016, spain submitted a request for a financial contribution to the comunidad valenciana region of spain. i support this report because i consider that all the conditions for the granting of financial aid are fulfilled.
written. ‒ i support proposal for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: request egf/2016/004 es/comunidad valenciana automotive industry with regard to regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 17 december 2013 on the european globalisation adjustment fund as it sets out legislative and budgetary instruments with the aim of providing support to workers affected by the consequences of globalisation. spain's request for assistance for 250 redundant workers was submitted in accordance with the intervention criteria laid down in article 4 and, notwithstanding that it deviates from point (b) requiring a number of at least 500 workers, i consider that the european union should intervene through its own resources. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much lower than the union industry's market share. therefore, spain should be assisted and its decision on new educational measures aimed at vocational retraining should be supported. i also believe that this decision should be a measure of the flexibility of the institutions of the european union and an indication of the intention to help the member states. i believe that a similar practice should be applied in the case of similar requests from other member states, and thus from croatia.
‒ the decline in car production in spain has resulted in a reduction in the number of jobs in the automotive industry. following the redundancies of 250 workers in the automotive industry in the comunidad valenciana region, spain submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, which provided for a financial contribution from the fund of eur 856 800, representing 60% of the estimated costs. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and overhaul of buildings, installations and equipment for the construction of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. in the last decade, the european automotive industry has lost a significant share in this area by moving to markets outside the european union, primarily the asian market. the reason is that too much taxation and bureaucracy and bad conditions are keeping the big manufacturers from staying in the european union. i believe that the european union will not succeed in recovering the economy with the proposed policies of retraining workers, because these measures cannot help the recovery of the affected sectors, in this case the automotive sector. as i believe that the proposed measures represent only a short-term solution for both the workers made redundant and the economy of the european union, i voted against this report.
written. ‒ i support the report by esteban gonzález on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, a request submitted by spain. the very purpose of this fund was to help workers who became surplus after the bankruptcy and closure of bosal sa, a company from spain. in this context, it was essential to help these people to reintegrate slowly into the labour market. we are aware of the current crisis in economic flows. this often results in workers being laid off. these workers need help. the european union therefore offers assistance in a variety of ways and through programmes. this is why the european globalisation adjustment fund was created. the commission document com ((2016) 0708) proposed to grant a financial contribution of eur 856 800 for 250 workers declared surplus in the economic sector.
written. ‒ i voted against the amendment by the enf group to the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, as it seeks to reject the council's position. i have followed the position of the alde group and its shadow rapporteur to support the extension of this regulation in a spirit of compromise.
written. ‒ under regulation 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, which the commission proposes to repeal, member states are allowed to reimburse those undertakings for the payment of obligations which do not apply to carriers in other modes of transport. these commitments may relate to special payments in the event of accidents at work, pensions for railway workers or payment of the cost of railway and road facilities. the report also notes that the current text of the regulation is discriminatory in that it provides for the possibility of compensation for only 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation. the report suggests to follow the commission's proposal to repeal the regulation, with the exception of the provisions applying to the normalisation of accounts for category iv cases, which continue to apply until 31 december 2017. this will give member states time to adapt their national legislation regarding the reimbursement of costs associated with certain railway and road infrastructure. given that the council's position at first reading is in line with the agreement reached during the interinstitutional negotiations, i did not support the proposal to reject the council's position.
written. ‒ the standardisation of railway accounts proposed by the commission to be abolished allows railway undertakings and member states to compensate for the payment of obligations not applicable to carriers in other modes of transport. the commission notes that the compensation granted to the railway undertaking for the provision of services to the public is not limited to the costs of the infrastructure and the costs of the infrastructure manager. the types of remuneration for such obligations are divided into 15 categories governing the specific scope and principles of calculation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the compensation granted to the railway undertakings for the provision of the services provided by the railway undertakings in question is compatible with the internal market. however, following several railway packages that transformed the railway sector, the regulation is no longer in line with the existing legal environment and it implements discrimination between those railway undertakings included in the list and those subsequently added to the list. this is to level the playing field for all railway administrations.
written. ‒ regulation 1192/69 is no longer compatible with the existing legal environment, since it was adopted at a time when rail transport in europe was developing mainly within national borders under the management of integrated undertakings. in the meantime, we have liberalised the railway market in europe and now the transformed railway sector is unfortunately subject to discrimination. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the compensation granted to the railway undertakings for the non-payment of the charges for the services provided by the railway undertakings is compatible with the internal market. however, the regulation contains a list of railway undertakings which were formerly state-owned and the possibility of compensation is provided for only for the 40 undertakings mentioned. therefore, the maintenance of the regulation in force is only possible if the list of railway undertakings is regularly updated. however, a transitional period with regard to the payment of railway infrastructure charges is necessary as some member states still use the regulation as the basis for charges and will need time to amend their national legislation and administrative provisions. i call on all member states to continue to transpose the measures of directive 2012/34/eu, avoiding unnecessary delays.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ under regulation 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, which the commission proposes to repeal, member states are allowed to compensate railway undertakings for the payment of obligations which do not apply to carriers in other modes of transport. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the compensation granted to the undertakings concerned by the contested measure is compatible with the internal market. the commission notes that following several railway packages that transformed the sector, the regulation is no longer in line with the existing legal environment. the regulation provides for the possibility of reimbursing costs only for 40 undertakings currently listed in the annexes to the regulation and its maintenance is only envisaged if the list of railway undertakings is regularly updated. parliament's position at first reading was adopted on 26 february 2014. the european parliament then decided to repeal the regulation but requested a two-year delay in the entry into force of that decision. after six rounds of the trilogue, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency on 19 april 2016. since the council's position at first reading is in accordance with the agreement reached in the interinstitutional negotiations, i accept and vote to give effect to the legal act.
written. ‒ i supported the report which repeals the regulation on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. the regulation allows member states to compensate joint undertakings for the payment of obligations not applicable to carriers in other modes of transport, which was used by four member states: belgium, germany, ireland and poland. since this regulation provides for the possibility of compensation for only 40 companies listed in the annexes, this discriminates against the other companies. i find it particularly useful that member states have a deadline of 31 december 2017 to adapt their national legislation regarding the reimbursement of costs associated with certain rail-road facilities in cases where the railway undertaking bears an unusually high share of the costs of constructing and operating the safety devices used by rail and other modes of transport.
written. ‒ because of the discriminatory effect that regulation 1192/69 has had so far on those companies that are not entitled to compensation, i support the report. i consider that it is unfair to allow the reimbursement of costs only to certain railway undertakings on the list of 40 undertakings, and that any retention of that list is only possible if that list is regularly updated to allow the reimbursement of costs to other undertakings. the lack of a regulation is seen in the fact that it was adopted before the liberalisation of the railway market and at a time when this form of transport was developing primarily within national borders. as it has also experienced several railway packages that have transformed the sector and the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment, i support the commission's proposal to repeal it.
written. ‒ i voted against the amendments by certain groups to the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as regards the opening of the market for domestic passenger rail services, since they seek, inter alia, to reject the council position. i support improving the quality of rail passenger services and the related operational efficiency and therefore support the alde group's position in support of the agreement.
written. ‒ the overall objective of the commission's proposal to amend regulation no 1370/2007 is to improve the quality of rail passenger services in order to improve their operational efficiency. this should improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail, compared to other modes of transport, and further develop the single european railway area. in order to achieve this objective, the commission proposed the introduction of a public tender for public contracts providing rail transport services in eu countries, with the aim of improving and developing new business services. the aim is to increase efficiency and improve the quality of passenger services in rail transport. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide for the creation of a new infrastructure, but rather to provide for the creation of a new infrastructure. in view of the above, i did not support the proposal to reject the council's position.
the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the conditions laid down in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty (oj c 180, 1.7.2008, p. 1). this should improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail transport and further develop the single european railway area. in order to achieve this objective, the commission proposes the mandatory introduction of competitive tendering for public service contracts, accompanied by measures to ensure favourable framework conditions for tendering procedures, including rules on access to the fleet. the commission proposal is closely linked to the proposed amendments to directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area, which introduces an open access right for railway undertakings and strengthens the provisions relating to infrastructure management with regard to enhancing non-discriminatory access to infrastructure by railway operators. this will make rail transport simpler and more accessible to all citizens.
written. ‒ the public service obligations regulation provides the legislative framework for rail and road passenger services in the domestic market. the regulation intends to complete the opening-up of this market, to remove the possibility of direct award of public service contracts. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the market for railway vehicles. i therefore support the introduction of regularly updated so-called transport plans, where the competent authorities will show all the modes of transport relevant to the territory for which they are responsible. i welcome the fact that public tendering will now become the norm and that its transparency will be enhanced through simplified access to key data more efficient public procurement procedures are key to the proper functioning of a competitive market. it is necessary to provide for better protection of working conditions for workers in that sector and greater employment security in the context of competitive public procurement. this added value of the social dimension of the review of commitments is important to the s&d group and we will continue to work on it. the harmonisation of social protection at european level is just another aspect of the fight for workers' rights, the s&d group's most important objective.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the commission proposal is to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 and improve the quality of rail passenger services and their efficiency. this should enhance the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and enable the development of a single european railway area. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee to the state, but to the railway undertakings. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, interinstitutional negotiations were launched with a view to reaching an early agreement at second reading. the commission notes that the public service contracts awarded to the railway undertakings are not subject to any conditions of public service obligations. i accept and vote for the entry into force of the legal act as the council's first reading is in accordance with the agreement reached during the interinstitutional negotiations and it should be accepted without amendment.
written. ‒ the market pillar of the fourth railway package aims to improve the competitiveness of the railway sector and the quality of rail services through the introduction of competitive public tendering for rail service contracts and consists of three legislative proposals, including an amendment to the regulation regarding the opening of the market for domestic passenger rail services. the proposed amendments set out clearer rules relating to the definition of public service obligations and their scope and will achieve the public transport policy objectives, in particular the financial sustainability of the provision of public passenger transport services, in an economic way. provisions on the social protection of employees in the event of a change of public service operator have been added and compliance with quality and social standards has been achieved. since i believe that the proposed amendments will contribute to a simplified and transparent process of liberalisation of the railway sector, i have supported this report.
written. ‒ in order to increase transparency, i support this report by my colleague wim van de campa and the proposal to introduce compulsory public tendering for the provision of public passenger rail services. the improvement of the quality of rail passenger services and their efficiency is possible only by increasing the competitive pressure on domestic carriers, but this system needs to be made transparent. in line with the objective of increasing transparency, i consider it acceptable that the competent authorities at national level clearly define the specifications for public service obligations in public passenger transport and their scope and guarantee that the service is provided in an economical manner. the commission notes that the amendments to the regulation are not intended to change the legal basis for the application of the exemption from the obligation to notify the commission of the amendments to the regulation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments by the various groups to the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/34/eu as regards the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail and the management of railway infrastructure, as this rejects the council's position. the agreement reached points to the fragmentation of the european rail market and strengthens national monopolies. therefore, i have decided to vote to reject the council's position and follow the alde line.
the commission's proposal to amend directive 2012/34/eu aims primarily at opening up the domestic market for rail passenger services, with the aim of strengthening competition, in order to increase the volume and improve the quality of passenger services. the commission notes that the proposed amendment to regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 is not in line with the objectives of the regulation and that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007. the second objective is to improve infrastructure management and ensure equal access for all, and this can be achieved by removing conflicts of interest that affect the decisions of the infrastructure manager. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the increase in competition and specialisation of market participants should have a positive impact on productivity and efficiency and lead to increased investment in railway infrastructure. these changes should raise the level of competition, ensure financial transparency and fair financing conditions, therefore i did not support the proposal to reject the council's position.
written. ‒ the main objectives of this proposal are to improve the quality and efficiency of domestic rail passenger services and to remove the remaining legal obstacles to the completion of the single european railway area, and to strengthen the governance of infrastructure managers with a view to ensuring equal access. this will be achieved by removing conflicts of interest affecting the decisions of the infrastructure manager on market access and eliminating possible cross-subsidisation between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertakings, which exists in integrated structures. the commission will also assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the safety of railway undertakings and on the safety of railway undertakings. the increased competition should increase the attractiveness of the railways, which will make the sector more sensitive to customer needs. the growth of rail activities should also increase the demand for more qualified railway workers and railway service operators, as well as the demand for rolling stock, thus creating new jobs in the railway sector. i support the council's position on this subject, and because rail is the cleanest form of transport and we also protect our environment.
written. ‒ international passenger and freight markets where open market access has already been achieved provide a good example for the rail market as a roadmap towards further development and market share growth. the opening of the domestic rail market will ensure competitive competition and thus improved quality for passengers in europe. the first priority is to eliminate conflicts of interest and the possibility of unfair subsidisation the decisions of the infrastructure manager must be transparent and impartial. the commission has therefore decided to introduce safeguard measures to ensure the independence of the infrastructure manager. i also call on member states to establish national conflict of interest assessment frameworks where regulatory authorities would take into account any personal financial and professional interests that have the potential to inappropriately influence the decisions of the administrator. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the market for rail transport services. the sector will develop a better approach to identifying user needs through competition and the attractiveness of railways will certainly increase. the development of information systems and of systems for issuing single cards should be among the priorities in this sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change objectives and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change objectives.
written. i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the objective of this report is to establish a single european railway area in order to open up the market for domestic rail passenger transport in order to increase competitive pressure, increase the volume and improve the quality of passenger services. these changes should increase competition, ensure financial transparency and fair financing conditions. the increase in competition and the specialisation of market players should also have a positive impact on productivity and efficiency and lead to increased investment in rail infrastructure. member states should establish a national framework for the assessment of conflicts of interest and regulatory authorities should take into account any personal financial, economic or professional interests that could adversely affect impartiality. the council's position at first reading is in accordance with the agreement reached in the interinstitutional negotiations. i accept and vote for the entry into force of the legal act as it should strengthen the coordination between infrastructure managers and railway operators in order to better meet market needs and improve cross-border cooperation between infrastructure managers.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal which is aimed at revitalising the railway sector and providing better quality of service and more choice for passengers. i believe that the objectives set out in the fourth railway package are indeed universally acceptable - to increase the quality and efficiency of rail services by removing legal, institutional and technical barriers. railways really need to keep up with the times and become more competitive with other transport sectors. the instruments that are intended to achieve this are also to be commended - financial transparency, avoidance of conflicts of interest, open access to high-speed rail, objectivity and impartiality of infrastructure management, etc.
written. ‒ i see the increase in competition through the opening of the domestic rail passenger market as a positive development. the increase in competition as a final effect on domestic markets should have an increase in the quality of service, an increase in financial transparency, which is in the interest and for the benefit of all users of this mode of transport. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the market for rail transport services. i support this report and the suggestion that a framework for the assessment of conflicts of interest and regulatory bodies should be established at national level to remove all potential threats to impartiality and the development of information systems and ticketing systems to make this form of transport as efficient as possible.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports (com ((2013) 0296 c8-0144/2013 2013/0157 cod)) as this regulation achieves a more efficient and better connected functioning of the ten-t network by creating better conditions for the functioning of ports and adapting to changes in transport and logistics conditions. this regulation aims to contribute to the modernisation of port services and port operations, to increase the efficiency of port services and to create better conditions for the attractiveness of investments in ports. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of scientific and technical research and technological development. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. this regulation will apply to all maritime ports identified in the ten-t guidelines, avoiding additional burden for those ports that are already functioning well, while creating conditions for other ports to be able to cope with structural changes.
written. ‒ the vast majority of the union's maritime traffic passes through the seaports of the trans-european transport network. this regulation does not impose a specific port management model on port managing authorities. the commission notes that the port authorities have not provided any evidence that the port services market is in a state of serious economic and financial crisis. this will contribute to a better use of public funds and to the effective application of competition rules in ports across the union, which is why i supported this report.
‒ the european union is implementing a transport infrastructure policy that links the continent from east and west to north and south. the objective of this policy is to bridge the disconnected parts of the transport network of the member states, to remove bottlenecks that still threaten the smooth functioning of the internal market and to overcome technical obstacles. the policy promotes and strengthens transport links for passenger and freight traffic, all in step with the latest technological trends. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the financial markets. the commission considers that the aid is necessary to ensure that the port infrastructure is not affected by the negative effects of the aid. the commission proposal is balanced and flexible, responding to the needs of the different port operators, but also to the specificities of each european port in particular. the purpose of the regulation is to increase transparency in the financial relations between state-owned ports and the services of operators operating in those ports. this will contribute to a better use of public funds and to the effective and fair application of competition rules in eu ports. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the legal certainty of the ports concerned. in the light of the above, i supported the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports.
written. ‒ we have a duty to ensure the competitiveness of european industry at the global level tomorrow by taking decisive action today and improving the performance of ports can contribute to this long-term objective it is therefore necessary to respond to the challenges facing the maritime transport sector, which inter alia affect competitiveness and the social dimension. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european platform for the exchange of information on port security and the exchange of information on port security. in particular, labour relations in ports have a major impact on the functioning of ports themselves and i call on the sectoral social dialogue committee for ports to provide a framework at eu level for the union's social partners to adopt joint outcomes on labour relations-related social issues. the negotiations should respect the autonomy of the social partners and ensure that they are able to report on progress made. the inefficiency of the transport and logistics chain is a major challenge and i call for the simplification of administrative procedures for customs clearance which will bring a major economic advantage to ports in terms of competitiveness. it is necessary to avoid unfair competition in the ports market and to reduce customs formalities which could seriously harm the financial interests of the union.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ ports can contribute to the long-term competitiveness of european industry on world markets, thereby increasing value added and employment in all coastal regions of the union. the complexity of administrative procedures for customs clearance, which leads to congestion in ports, is a major obstacle to the competitiveness of coastal shipping and the efficiency of union ports. the connecting europe facility enables ports in the trans-european transport network to benefit from union subsidies during the current period from 2014 to 2020. furthermore, the commission intends to establish a revised framework for state aid to ports and, given that directive 2014/23/eu of the european parliament and of the council also establishes a new legislative framework for concessions, which will also affect port services provided under a concession agreement, strict rules on transparency of financial flows need to be introduced in this regulation in order to prevent unfair competition between ports in the union or dumping. i support this proposal to contribute to the modernisation of port services and operations with a view to efficiency, better interconnection and the sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network (ten-t).
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a resolution on market access to port services and financial transparency of ports, as it contributes to a better use of public funds and the proper application of competition rules, but also to the modernisation of port services and operations. in accordance with this regulation, it is also necessary to implement the activities listed in the commission communication entitled 'ports: engines of growth', as ports add value and jobs to the coastal regions of the european union. it is also necessary to simplify the administrative procedures for customs clearance in order to reduce the backlog in ports. the objective is to remove restrictions on the freedom to provide services within the union, which is one of the symbols of the community itself, as set out in article 56 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the regulation establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports which seeks to contribute to the goal of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network. the commission considers that the proposed measures are in line with the principles of the common fisheries policy and the principle of subsidiarity. in particular, i support the part introducing the possibility of derogations to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens for those seaports whose annual turnover does not justify the full application of this regulation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreement between the ccipb and the ccipb was concluded in good time. in addition, i believe that automation and technological innovation will open up the possibility to improve the efficiency and safety of ports.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports. the proposed regulation seeks to adopt a clear framework for market access to port services and common rules on financial transparency and fees applicable to port service providers. there are over 1200 seaports in europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on maritime transport and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on maritime transport. 96% of all cargo and 93% of passengers pass through eu ports of transit, and 319 ports are identified in the commission's proposal for guidelines for the trans-european transport network (ten-t). this regulation aims to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the performance of all ports and helps them to cope with changes in traffic and logistical requirements. in addition, it is estimated that these measures will save eur 10 billion by 2030 and ensure the development of coastal shipping, reduce congestion and create jobs.
written. ‒ i support this report on the appointment of johan parts as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a decision on the proposed appointment of mr parts as a member of the court of auditors, because i consider that mr parts has the necessary knowledge and skills to perform the said function. his professional experience and education indicate that mr parts will perform his duties as a member of the court of justice in a responsible, conscientious and independent manner. the experience gained in the performance of the functions of prime minister of estonia and minister of economy and communications certainly contributes to his management skills and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the parliament's committee on budgets has carried out a check on the competence of the nominee, mr johan parts, in particular with regard to the application under article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. mr parts served as state auditor of estonia from 1998 to 2002 and his cv submitted in his candidacy makes him a credible candidate for this position. that's why i supported this report.
written. ‒ juhan parts has a strong professional background, having been a member of the board of directors of eurosai, the european organisation of supreme audit institutions, and has participated in various projects in the field of development of audit methods to improve cooperation between supreme audit institutions. i am convinced that the role of mr parts as the state auditor of estonia is of inestimable importance for his appointment, given that the court of auditors carries out the audit of eu revenue and expenditure and checks whether eu funds are used correctly and with the expected effect. i believe that his membership will improve the quality of auditing of the overall accounting records of the revenue and/or expenditure of the european union and its bodies, given that parts has served as the state auditor and led the reform of the state financial management system in estonia. during his term as prime minister, the process of estonia's accession to the european union was successfully completed, and he was minister of economy and communications from 2007 to 2014. as an independent external auditor of the eu, parts will, as a member of the court of auditors, protect the interests of eu taxpayers, and thus also the interests of taxpayers of the republic of croatia. therefore, i consider that the appointment of mr parts contributes to a better functioning of the eu audit system as a whole and i have supported his appointment as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ the mr juhan parts is the former prime minister of estonia and minister of economic relations and communications and minister of justice. he was appointed as a member of the security council in december 2016. the estonian national conservative party (ekre) forwarded a letter to the european parliament and all cont members to block the appointment of johan parts on the grounds that he was not the right person for the job. i support this report as, apart from the above-mentioned facts, there should be no other obstacle to the nomination of mr johan parts as a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the appointment of the member of the court of auditors - johan parsa, as he is a prominent member of the community and a legal expert, winner of numerous awards. given that he has been involved in establishing a modern and democratized legal system in estonia, a modern national audit office in line with international auditing standards and has successfully completed the process of accession to the european union as prime minister, i believe that he will be a worthy member of the court of auditors, which will be guided solely by the common interests of the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the appointment of mr parts as a member of the court of auditors and i hope that he will carry out his duties in accordance with the principle of independence which is fundamental to the performance of daily audit duties and to the taking of strategic decisions. the government of the republic of estonia has proposed mr parts as its representative to the court of auditors on the basis of his previous experience. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. in view of the above experience, i consider juhan parts to be a qualified expert who can contribute to the work of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ mr johan parts' experience so far speaks positively of his professional work and activities. the fact that he was the prime minister of the country when estonia joined the european union clearly shows that he is a man who appreciates and respects european values. at a time of security challenges facing the whole of europe, it is important to note that mr. parts has led estonia on the path to nato. he is clearly defined as a person who is against any kind of fraud and corruption, which is necessary for someone who claims to be a member of such a respected court as the court of auditors. his international experience gives us confidence that he will be able to work very easily in a collective with other members of the court. all of these facts speak of one quality person who is willing to work with honesty and dedication in any assignment given to him.
written. ‒ i support this report on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel, which aims to facilitate access to funding, ensure transparency and comply with the commission's rules on expert groups.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2008/376/ec adopting the research fund for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines for that programme, as the commission intends to facilitate access to funding and to provide greater transparency, which is essential to further develop the sector and to stimulate innovation. the research fund makes available eur 50 million annually to the coal and steel sector for research and development. the report i voted for proposes amendments to the fund concerned, which focus on the rules governing the programme of the research fund for coal and steel and align them with the procedures and concepts used for horizon 2020 with a view to facilitating the participation of the same beneficiaries in both programmes.
written. ‒ the eu has been supporting coal and steel research for more than 50 years and, when the treaty expired in 2002, it was decided to make the assets of the ecsc available to the coal and steel research fund. the programme shall be financed by revenues generated by the remaining assets of the former egtc and managed by the commission. the research fund for coal and steel shall be complementary to horizon 2020 and shall be managed outside the framework of that programme. the fund provides eur 50 million to the coal and steel sector for research and development and innovation, and brings together industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities from across europe. the purpose of this proposal is to amend the legal basis following a periodic review of the governance rules in order to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and proportionate alignment with the rules of the general research programme horizon 2020. the proposed amendments to the research fund for coal and steel focus on the rules on the governance of the research fund for coal and steel programme and are aligned with the procedures and concepts used for horizon 2020. as the objective of this proposal is to ensure the transparent management of the programme financed by the general budget of the eu, i supported this proposal.
written. ‒ the coal and steel sectors are important in the process of european integration and play a key role in the union's overall industrial sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work. in this context, this very important sector needs to be approached with due care and adequate support for projects that ensure the future of the sector adapted to new needs and challenges. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in this article to finance the expenditure incurred by the member states in the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. it brings together industrial partners, smes, research centres and universities from across europe to stimulate innovation in the sector. research covers production processes, the use and conservation of resources, environmental protection and occupational safety. access to the financial means of that fund should be facilitated and simplified.
written. ‒ the research fund for coal and steel is complementary to horizon 2020 and is managed outside the framework of that programme. the fund provides the coal and steel sectors with eur 50 million per year for research and development and innovation. it brings together industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities from across europe to develop knowledge and stimulate innovation in the sector. i accept the commission's proposal. the commission states that the purpose of the proposal is to amend the legal basis following the periodic evaluation of the governance rules in order to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and a proportionate alignment with the rules of the general research programme horizon 2020, which are known to the stakeholders of the coal and steel sector, and to ensure that the commission manages the programme with appropriate transparency and in accordance with the commission's rules on expert groups.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the eu has been supporting coal and steel research for more than 50 years. it all started with the treaty on the european coal and steel community (ecsc, signed in 1951). when this treaty expired in 2002, the research fund for coal and steel (rfcs) was set up and managed by the commission. the research fund for coal and steel brings together industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities from across the european union and encourages the development of knowledge and innovation in the sector. i support the proposal to amend the legal basis of the research fund for coal and steel in order to facilitate access to funding and to align it with the rules of the general research programme horizon 2020.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel, as this is an area that the eu has been researching and supporting for over 50 years. the first such contract was signed in 1951 and, on expiry of the same year, 2002, the assets were made available to the research fund for coal and steel, which provides eur 50 million per year to the coal and steel sectors for research and innovation. the coal and steel sectors are of vital importance to the process of european integration, but at the same time the working conditions in them are demanding and harmful to workers. simpler funding rules should be considered and the use of 'single costs' should be allowed for the benefit of smes involved in the programme.
written. ‒ the eu has been supporting coal and steel research for more than 50 years, starting with the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc), signed in 1951. when that contract expired in 2002, it was decided that the assets of the ecsc would be made available to the research fund for coal and steel. the programme shall be financed by revenues generated by the remaining assets of the former eeas and managed by the commission. the research fund for coal and steel shall be complementary to horizon 2020 and shall be managed outside the framework of that programme. the fund provides the coal and steel sectors with eur 50 million per year for research and development and innovation. it brings together industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities from across europe to develop knowledge and stimulate innovation in the sector, which is of vital importance for the development of the sector in all eu countries. the purpose of this proposal is to amend the legal basis in order to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and to ensure that the commission manages the programme with appropriate transparency and in accordance with the commission's rules on expert groups. i voted in favour of this report, as i support the reasons for amending the legal basis.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2008/376/ec adopting the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel. the research fund for coal and steel shall be complementary to horizon 2020 and shall be managed outside the framework of that programme. the fund allocates eur 50 million annually to the coal and steel sectors for research and development and innovation (72,8% of the funds go to the steel sector and 27,2% to the coal sector). it brings together industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities from across europe to develop knowledge and stimulate innovation in the sector. the purpose of the proposal is to amend the legal basis following the periodic evaluation of the governance rules, thereby achieving the objectives of access to funding in line with the rules of the general research programme horizon 2020 and ensuring that the commission manages the programme with appropriate transparency and in accordance with the commission's rules on expert groups, in particular with regard to provisions relating to comitology.
written. ‒ i support this own-initiative report, which is based on the principles of decency and equality which do not accept any form of discrimination against any of our citizens. i support the condemnation of all forms of discrimination against lgbti people, as well as the condemnation of the lack of humanity displayed at european borders, which instead of compassion for those fleeing war and persecution have offered walls and barbed wire.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2015 and the european union's policy in this area (2016/2219(ini) which expresses serious concern that the promotion and protection of human rights and democratic values are under threat worldwide. there is a problem of freedom of speech, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and freedom of assembly and association. there is a growing number of repressive laws affecting civil society, which are being passed around the world under the pretext of fighting terrorism. the report underlines the commitment of the european union to a foreign and security policy based on the promotion of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity. welcomes the adoption of the second eu action plan on human rights and democracy (2015 2019), and encourages the eu and its member states to implement the actions envisaged in the plan fully, consistently, transparently and in a timely manner, and to step up support for democracy; the need for the eu to pursue un reforms with a view to strengthening the influence and power of the rules-based multilateral system and ensuring more effective protection of human rights and the promotion of international law is emphasised.
‒ the european union is committed to a common foreign and security policy and to all other policies with an external dimension based on the promotion of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the report highlights concerns about various forms of violence, persecution, threats, harassment, disappearances or imprisonment. i did not support this report because it proposes, in addition to protecting minorities, protecting lgbt communities, and as a key it states a strategy for promoting and protecting the rights of lgbti people, which i do not support.
written. ‒ in today's world, human rights are systematically violated on a daily basis. war, violence, and persecution escalate. in syria and iraq, isis has committed genocide against christians and yazidis, boko haram is doing the same in nigeria. the rules of war are being violated, preventing humanitarian aid from reaching the people, killing innocent civilians, bombing hospitals, schools, churches... freedom of thought, conscience, and religion has been completely abolished in many lands of the world. we live in a world where most people are in daily fear of naked life. we live in a world where children know nothing but war. this is reality. therefore, it is unacceptable for me that in the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world for 2015 and the european union's policy in this area, we deal with trivial matters and ideologically colored policies. the eu has a responsibility in its common foreign and security policy to take care first and foremost of the indivisibility of human rights and respect for human dignity and fundamental freedoms. the right to live in peace, free from persecution, free from fear of tomorrow, must be the focus of the eu, not the various quasi-rights that are put in the foreground.
written. ‒ article 21 teu commits the european union to a common foreign and security policy guided by the principles which inspired its creation and which the union seeks to advance in the world: the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law. this report highlights that respect for fundamental human rights is seriously undermined in many parts of the world and that the eu needs to ensure coherence between its internal and external policies in respect of human rights. the s&ds called for a special focus on the human rights of women and children, migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, and lgbti people. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation and the rules on the application of regulation (eu) no 514/2014 of the european parliament and of the council. on business and human rights, we reiterated our strong call for the systematic introduction of human rights clauses in all international agreements, including trade and investment agreements, concluded or to be concluded between the eu and third countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the european union is committed to a common foreign and security policy (cfsp) based on democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law. the promotion and preservation of the indivisibility and universality of human rights are among the key objectives of the eu's foreign and security policy. the eu considers that cooperation with civil society and human rights defenders in third countries should be one of the main priorities in promoting human rights and combating human rights violations. the eu also advocates the promotion of human rights in all areas of its external relations 'without exception'. i support this report because i believe that human rights must be respected, in accordance with the fundamental principles of freedom, democracy, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, and that every individual without exception is entitled to the same.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2015 and the european union's policy in this area. i agree with most of the text of this motion for a resolution. i consider it right to call for further military integration of the european union with the aim of strengthening the flexibility of the eu armed forces and responding more effectively to cases of human rights violations and breaches of international humanitarian law. i would like to recall in particular the european parliament resolution calling on the un security council to request the international criminal court to investigate the human rights violations of christians in iraq and syria by isil and to appeal to the need for the institutional protection that christians in the area need. the european union should also pay particular attention to cases of smuggling of migrants which are essentially linked to trafficking in human beings and develop a uniform approach within the member states of the european union to address this problem.
written. ‒ as in previous years, the world report on human rights covers a wide range of topics, such as religious freedom, recognition of the positive contributions of the business sector to human rights, protection of the journalistic profession, assistance to internally displaced persons and many others. i believe that respect for fundamental human rights must be an unquestionable and uncompromising achievement of civilization and i therefore support most of the calls contained in this report. however, i cannot agree that the right to abortion is a fundamental human right. i have already stated many times my firm position that the right of one being ends the moment the right of another begins. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ in the context of human rights, it is important to stress that the eradication of poverty and underdevelopment is a crucial precondition for their realisation. the realization of human rights is also linked to the problem of migration, i.e. the refugee crisis, which needs to be solved in the most painless way. migrants must be guaranteed full respect for human rights in order to resolve the entire refugee crisis as easily as possible. it is necessary to ensure that development funds reach their targets and to provide a framework for action at national and international level. the promotion of social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or religion, including fair access, is needed to strengthen the national health system. the eu institutions need to do even more to tackle caste discrimination alongside other causes of discrimination. the eu is a leader in supporting vulnerable and marginalised groups, including people with disabilities. the danger of terrorism underlines the need for better cooperation of foreign security policies. it is important to ensure that the affected areas receive continuous assistance.
written. - i support this report. at a time of enormous geopolitical challenges in the eu, deeper integration, including defence-building of the union and maximising the union's diplomatic weight and strengthening resilience through a range of available political, economic, military and humanitarian tools, is key to the eu's survival as an influential international player.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (2016/2036 ((ini)) as the security situation in europe and its neighbourhood has deteriorated significantly in recent years and has created new challenges. it is necessary that the union's external policies be consistent with each other and with other policies having an external dimension. the eu is committed to developing a common foreign and security policy inspired by the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and respect for the united nations charter and international law. i particularly welcome the fact that the report cites enlargement policy as one of the most successful eu policies, which has contributed to ensuring stability, democracy and prosperity on the european continent, and reiterates strong support for the enlargement process. there is a problem of united nations constraints and the eu and its member states are called upon to pursue reform of the security council. the eu must strengthen its security and defence capabilities to better exploit its full potential as a world power. the creation of a european defence union must be decided unanimously among the eu member states. the eu and nato will continue to work together to ensure that the eu and nato are able to achieve the objectives of the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is important to find ways to calm the current tensions and to establish a constructive dialogue with russia in order to identify measures aimed at reducing the risk of misunderstandings and miscalculations.
written. ‒ today, the eu is faced with a multitude of challenges, such as terrorism, cybersecurity, disinformation, human trafficking or radicalisation. the union's external action must therefore be based on diplomacy, development and defence. this report outlines the current state and challenges of international politics and stresses the need to bring together all instruments to safeguard the eu's interests and values. in the area of defence, it is essential that the eu strengthens security and defence capabilities, and that member states enhance synergies in action through increased defence cooperation. ensuring peace and stability in the union's environment is a key priority, as sustainable development is impossible without security. to this end, it is crucial to address the causes of instability, terrorism, radicalisation, forced migration and poverty in neighbouring countries. the report calls for the union to show stronger leadership and take a stronger role in conflict prevention and economic diplomacy. these tools can help to strengthen eu policies in these areas, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ the eu today faces unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state fragmentation, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity and organised crime. the eu is facing a threat from terrorism on its territory, and this should be highlighted by the thousands of returnees from the wars in syria and iraq in the eu who are members of terrorist groups. i am particularly concerned about the situation in bosnia and herzegovina, where islam as we knew it in bih is changing, becoming radical, especially in rural areas. although the number of fighters leaving europe for the battlefields of syria and iraq is reportedly decreasing, possibly due to tighter controls, it should be noted that isil is now employing a strategy of instructing its european and us allies not to travel to the battlefields but to plot and execute their own bloody plans in their own countries. these are alarming circumstances, and i believe that civilian and military capabilities are key elements for the eu to fully respond to today's challenges and protect its citizens, and i support this report which calls for strengthening the union's security and defence capabilities.
written. ‒ the european union is currently facing a number of internal and external challenges. this year's report reflects the environment in which the eu is currently operating, including the brexit issue, relations with the us after the presidential elections, growing challenges on its eastern and southern borders, and particularly instability in the south due to extremist islamist groups. i therefore welcome president juncker's proposal to create a european defence fund to stimulate research and innovation. member states should allocate adequate human and financial resources to implement the eu global strategy, in particular in the key area of conflict prevention, security and defence. it is also time to define a more realistic strategy for the eu's relations with russia. sanctions were necessary in response to russian aggression in ukraine and the eu should leave open the possibility of further gradual sanctions, but the new relationship should also be based on dialogue in areas of common interest, such as counter-terrorism, non-proliferation and trade. furthermore, the eu needs to play a more active and effective role in conflict prevention and peacebuilding, in particular the importance of finding a sustainable solution to the conflict in syria. the eu should use its influence with key actors such as iran, saudi arabia, turkey, qatar and russia to take a constructive stance and refrain from contributing to further escalation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the european union faces a number of challenges including interstate conflicts, terrorism, hybrid and cyber threats, organised crime and climate change. the eu will only be able to respond effectively to new challenges if the structures of the eu and its member states cooperate in a joint and coordinated effort within the framework of the cfsp/csdp. the security and well-being of eu citizens have been seriously undermined by the refugee crisis and terrorism. the current internal and external crisis presents an opportunity for the eu and its member states to enhance cooperation in the area of an effective common foreign and security policy as a priority area of union action. the eu must work with the eastern partnership countries to strengthen democratisation and good governance and to make them full members of the csdp mission for the sake of security and stability in the region. i support this report because the european union, in the current internal and external crisis, must offer its citizens adequate solutions that will ensure peace, stability and prosperity for its citizens and neighbouring countries.
written. ‒ i support the movement for a resolution on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. first of all, i believe that the european union must develop a common security policy in order to be able to respond to the security threats and challenges it faces. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the implementation of the union's external action in the field of migration and asylum, in particular by means of the annual report on the implementation of the union's external action. the border crossing has proven to be the area where finding an adequate solution is of the utmost importance. the european union shall not allow any state or union to directly determine the permeability of the external borders of the european union. this is not just a question of security, but of the credibility of the european union institutions in general.
written. ‒ the lisbon treaty was intended to make the european union's common foreign and security policy more coherent and tangible. the european external action service and the high commissioner for foreign affairs and security policy of the european union were established in this context. while i agree that joint action by the european union in the area of foreign and security policy is not only desirable but sometimes necessary and a very useful tool for multilateral cooperation and for solving common problems, i nevertheless believe that this should never and in no way diminish the right of individual, national member states of the union to pursue independent policies in all those areas of foreign and security policy which they consider necessary. that is why i abstained.
written. - i support this report. i believe that we need effective measures in the eu to protect farmers as well as consumers from unfair trading practices. farmers are the weakest link in the food chain, but they are also the most important link.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the cap's tools for reducing price volatility on agricultural markets, because it is a wide-ranging problem that is not, by and large, favourable to producers or consumers. this report presents four key ways to improve the volatile situation of agricultural markets, namely to pursue better organisation of the sector, to develop risk management tools, to continue the implementation of price monitoring and to improve crisis management measures. europe must find an adequate response to such challenges and additional measures to help develop its agriculture. concrete measures need to be taken at national and european level, but also at the level of regional and local authorities, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ agricultural activity is highly dependent on climatic conditions and plant or animal diseases, which are natural factors beyond the farmer's control. the success of farms is therefore much more uncertain than in other economic sectors. income uncertainty harms investment and innovation and may undermine economic sustainability, while excessive volatility benefits neither producers nor consumers. the new cap will focus on risk management tools in agriculture, as a result of the growing global agricultural trade, for the period 2014-2020. the report highlights that the risk management tools of the second pillar of the current cap are inadequate to limit the impact of price volatility on farmers' incomes. as volatility in the prices of agricultural products is one of the main causes of unpredictable business conditions for european farmers, the eu should contribute to addressing this problem within the framework of the cap. the improvement ideas are to strengthen the organisation of the various parts of the agricultural sector and the contracting system, to better protect agricultural revenues by establishing a tool to manage the risks of appropriate price volatility and to increase market transparency by introducing price monitoring observatories. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the cap.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's resolution on the cap tools to reduce price volatility in agricultural markets, which brings a more decisive and coherent policy with appropriate instruments at eu and national level, with a view to ensuring multifunctional and sustainable agricultural production throughout the union. i would stress that agricultural activity depends on biological processes and is therefore strongly dependent on climatic conditions and plant or animal diseases, and natural factors are beyond the farmer's control. the performance of farms is therefore much more uncertain than that of undertakings in other economic sectors, and direct payments continue to provide a kind of stability for farmers. greater synergies between the cap and other eu policies are needed, particularly in the areas of energy, water supply, land use, biodiversity and ecosystems, and the development of both rural and island areas. the negotiating power of producers in the food supply chain must be strengthened by standard, transparent, balanced and collectively agreed contracts in order to enable farmers to respond to unfair trading practices, to be more competitive, to increase the stability of their incomes, to create added value and to invest in innovation and to be drivers of employment. i believe that the long-term objectives of agricultural policy must be to ensure a fair standard of living for farming communities and primary producers, to seek to stabilise the market and to guarantee sustainable food production.
written. ‒ price volatility and fluctuations have become a structural feature of agriculture over the past few years, due to a series of rapid successive shocks in demand, supply and prices, both at european and global level. climate change events such as droughts and floods also contribute to price volatility. price volatility is damaging to the agri-food sector, which is detrimental to investment and the ability to create new jobs. the european union does not have a real safety net to limit market volatility. effective eu measures are needed to protect farmers as well as consumers against unfair trading practices. the future cap should seek new ways to combat price volatility and stabilise farmers' incomes. the current system has not proved successful in responding to market imbalances such as the russian embargo or to the decline in demand for agricultural products at international level. the report, after analysing the situation and identifying the main problems, proposes several improvements to the cap: increased support for the sectoral organisation and producers, a better contract system and increased transparency. this report can be seen as a first step towards a new common agricultural policy.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ farmers are increasingly exposed to price volatility, and the european union is reducing its strategic aid to agriculture and basing it on non-production based support. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, in particular on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, the union's policy on the environment and the union's policy on the environment. the report recommends strengthening the current measures under the second pillar in order to increase the competitiveness of european agriculture and calls on the commission to carry out a thorough analysis of the reasons for the poor use of the tools available under the second pillar of the cap and to take urgent measures to provide assistance to the agricultural sector. food independence and food security in the eu, as well as the development of a competitive and sustainable agricultural sector across the union that meets the needs of citizens, must remain the strategic objectives of the future cap and an adequate standard of living for farmers must be urgently guaranteed. i express my support for this report because i believe that it will limit the impact of price volatility, strengthen agricultural education and vocational training programmes and encourage future-oriented agricultural management.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a resolution on cap tools to reduce price volatility in agricultural markets. agriculture is the most sensitive economic area due to various economic, natural and political factors affecting the prices and quality of agricultural products. contract relations should be adapted to market competition and targeted policy decisions should encourage transparency. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the common fisheries policy, as set out in the annex to implementing regulation (eu) no 1380/2013 of the european parliament and of the council [4] and in the annex to implementing regulation (eu) no 1380/2013 of the european parliament and of the council [5]. the traditional crisis management tools of the cap are not sufficiently effective in a globalised economy and adequate mechanisms need to be found to respond to a number of market challenges.
written. ‒ the concept of price volatility in agriculture implies significant variations in the prices of agricultural products in a given year. farmers are often faced with large price fluctuations for their agricultural products, resulting in financial uncertainty for their incomes and creating a high risk for farmers whose incomes are completely unpredictable and vulnerable to price shocks. major additional risk factors include weather conditions and changes in world trade patterns, such as attacks on russia and china. the resulting problem is a reduction in capacity for long-term investment, especially by young farmers. the objective of this report is to invite the commission to draft a new legislative proposal that will mitigate the negative effects of price volatility in agriculture by creating contractual relationships through the adoption of competition law and through the further management of risk assessment instruments and the implementation of the european agricultural price observatory for the various agricultural sectors. as the cap for the period 2014-2020 is primarily focused on offsetting the negative effects of price volatility and income unpredictability, and in view of the extraordinary expansion of global trade which brings with it global food insecurity, i voted in favour.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague angélique delahaye and agree that a more determined and coherent policy is needed to reduce the negative effects of price volatility. implementing policies not only at eu level but also at national level will ensure sustainable and multifunctional agriculture. as we are aware that the world's leading competitors are increasingly devoting more and more funds to the development of agriculture, risk management models and instruments to protect against price volatility, a more decisive policy is needed to maximise the protection of farmers. the current approach to the problem of agricultural market instability has not been adequate and urgent measures are needed to provide assistance to the agricultural sector. some of these measures are certainly better information for farmers, encouragement for young and new farmers, the possibility of association and increased market transparency.
mr. president, i will not talk about the constitutional court, i will not talk about the istanbul convention, nor will i talk about the right to assembly. i'll just tell you, dear friends, that as a young man in '81 i went by train from croatia to warsaw, i went to gdansk to look for you, to look for your friends from solidarity. i sang your songs in the cathedral in gdansk because i believed in you, because i believed because poland was in my heart and in croatia we sang poland in my heart and our hearts were full. but my heart today, dear friends, is empty and sad. when i see you laughing at us here, you remind me of those worst communists who laughed and believed they would live forever. they're gone, and i believe your politics will be gone, too.
mr president, mr commissioner, who else but the commission will uphold european law? who will protect european law if not the european commission? who will protect european citizens if the european commission does not? and we are not talking here about mistrust of the member states which still do not have the right to visa reciprocity, including my own country, croatia, whose citizens feel that they are second-class citizens. this is a matter of mistrust of the institutions of the european union. not about mistrust of member states, but of the institutions of the european union. if we continue with this policy of tact, how much will it cost us? how much money are we gonna lose? money, when it comes to principles, principles and respect for the law, has to be secondary. i think we understand each other very well when we talk about it. we expect your directive, we expect your decision, as soon as possible, not to say immediately.
written. although croatia is the closest of the 5 member states to meeting the official criteria and joining the visa waiver programme, it is absolutely unacceptable that all eu citizens are not treated equally when it comes to the free movement of citizens. this is all the more so if the eu has ambitions to conclude a trade agreement with the us on the free exchange of goods and services. the free movement of people must be a precondition for the free exchange of goods and services. the european rules are clear in this respect. i hope that this issue can be resolved soon and that the five remaining eu member states will be included in the visa waiver programme which would avoid the need for visas for us citizens when travelling to the eu. the recent example of visa reciprocity between the eu and canada, which abolished visas for the citizens of bulgaria and romania, shows that it is possible. if we do not reach the same agreement with the us, i expect the commission to respect its legal obligations and present a delegated act opening up the possibility of suspending the visa-free regime for us citizens when travelling to the eu.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, egypt, july of this year, a coptic family was attacked with knives, killing one member of the family. june coptic priest shot in the head. march four bible translators are brutally murdered in their office. in november 2015, a 26-year-old mother of two was killed by her uncle because she decided to convert to christianity. in august 2015, a coptic soldier was shot by soldiers. june 2015 christian found with two bullets in his chest after refusing to convert to islam. may 2015 coptic christian kidnapped and killed. april 2015 shots fired at a church bus. march 2015 church built in memory of murdered coptic christians is desecrated. in march 2015, a coptic shop owner was killed in his own shop. march 2015 a 50-year-old coptic christian was killed in his own home. the recent attack on the cathedral is just the latest in a brutal manhunt that has left 25 dead, six of them children. let's stop the persecution of christians. we have a responsibility too.
written. this issue needs to be approached with caution, as some proposals for automatic recognition of citizenship status at eu level raise very serious legal and ethical dilemmas. family law, and the definition of marriage and registered partnerships, are matters for which the member states are responsible and in which their sovereignty must not be compromised. the first paragraph of article 67 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union expressly states that 'the union shall constitute an area of respect for fundamental rights and for the different legal systems and traditions of the member states'. automatic recognition of civil status at eu level would certainly imply the unacceptable imposition of legal solutions in the area of family law, over which the eu has no jurisdiction. two-thirds of croatian citizens who voted in a 2013 referendum supported the constitutional definition of marriage as the union of a man and a woman. the recognition of citizenship status at eu level would directly contradict the constitution of the republic of croatia and the will of croatian citizens, which is completely unacceptable. this would have further far-reaching implications and consequences in all member states with different family legislation and legal systems. we must also preserve the values on which the eu is founded by respecting the diversity of national legal systems and national constitutions.
written. ‒ i support this report on third countries whose nationals are subject to or exempt from the visa requirement. the main achievement of the report is the agreement reached whereby the european parliament has an important role to play in the suspension of the visa regime.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (revision of the suspension mechanism) because i consider that visa policy affects the eu's external action and internal security and constitutes one of the key issues. the evolution of the political and migration situation requires a revision of the suspension mechanism in order to make the eu more adaptable and flexible, especially after a significant increase in the number of third-country nationals on eu territory, many asylum applications, security threats, etc. of course, i consider it essential, as the report itself states, that this increase in flexibility should be accompanied by a set of guarantees and the protection of human rights above all.
written. ‒ the the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 introduced elements such as a 'suspension mechanism'. due to the evolution of the political and migration situation, a revision of the suspension mechanism is necessary in order to make it more flexible and adaptable. it is necessary to introduce elements that will enable the eu to respond to the circumstances that have arisen as a result of the sudden and significant increase in the number of third-country nationals staying illegally on its territory. in accordance with the above, it is necessary to amend the suspension mechanism as regards the application of delegated acts and to adapt it to the judgments of the court of justice of the european union regarding the reciprocity mechanism. since both mechanisms are balanced in a legislative and political sense and have similar effects, the procedures under them should be coordinated. i believe that this is the only way to guarantee the rights of third country nationals and to protect the principles of the eu's visa policy, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ the four freedoms are one of the fundamental ideas and highest values of the european union. it is about the free movement of goods, services, people and capital without internal borders. it is the freedom of movement of people that is guaranteed by visa policy, since it affects both external action and internal security. the management of visa policy is clearly regulated as a shared competence of the co-legislators under the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission notes that the amendment of the 'reciprocity mechanism' as a counterweight to the above mentioned element is not to be forgotten. the two mechanisms are two sides of the same coin, are balanced in terms of legislation and policy and have similar effects, and the procedures within them should be harmonised. due to the evolution of the political and migration situation, in particular in the light of successive visa liberalisation processes with third countries, a revision of the suspension mechanism is necessary in order to make it more flexible and adaptable. i would remind you that the reciprocity mechanism is still not fully functioning for 5 member states, including croatia. i consider that these amendments should not prolong the adoption of a delegated act ensuring equal rights for citizens of the member states concerned with those of other eu citizens.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ visa policy is of key importance for the european union. the commission should be able to request the member states to provide the necessary information to enable it to carry out its tasks. there is no doubt that we need to provide the tools to enable the eu to respond to all circumstances arising from the surge in the number of third-country nationals staying illegally in the eu, unfounded asylum claims by third-country nationals and threats to security on european territory. this increased flexibility must, however, be accompanied by a robust and durable set of human rights safeguards and measures, as well as reports and statistics by european agencies and competent law enforcement bodies. this is the only way to guarantee the rights of third-country nationals and to protect the principles of the community visa policy. i support this report because i believe it is necessary and legally appropriate for the european parliament to be involved in decision-making, as we must not forget that the re-imposition of visas for third-country nationals is one of the most drastic political measures that can be taken.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a resolution on third countries whose nationals must be in possession of a visa or are exempt from that requirement: suspension mechanism. as this is a subject with direct implications for external action as well as internal security, the european union must pay close attention to the issue of visas and the suspension mechanism. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the visa liberalisation measures. the union's external action in the field of migration policy should be guided by the principles of the union's external action strategy, which is based on the principles of the union's external action strategy, the union's external action strategy and the union's external action strategy. the suspension mechanism should be designed to respond more effectively to the challenges identified above.
written. ‒ the main objective pursued by this proposal is to strengthen the suspension mechanism in such a way that it is easier for individual member states of the union to notify specific circumstances that may lead to a potential suspension and also to enable the commission to trigger the said mechanism on its own initiative. the agreement finally reached represents a balance between the opposing views of those who wanted this to be achieved through delegates and those who wanted this to be achieved through implementing acts. while i regret that the whole procedure is not based on implementing acts, the proposal has my support because i firmly believe that it is indisputable and indisputable that the suspension mechanism requires a modification towards empowerment. the commission should also be able to provide information on the visa waiver arrangements for third-country nationals who are not nationals of the member states. the commission has also taken the view that the commission's approach to the question of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is not appropriate.
written. ‒ i support the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra because of one of the important issues and problems of the eu, which is visa policy. this implies the view that visa policy is one of the key issues in the european union, as it affects external action and internal security. it is so important that its management is clearly regulated as a shared competence of the co-legislators within the framework of the ordinary legislative procedure. it is necessary and legally relevant that the european parliament be involved in the decision-making, given that the reintroduction of visas for third-country nationals is one of the most stringent political measures that can be applied. in accordance with the above, it is necessary to amend the suspension mechanism as regards the application of delegated acts and to adapt it to the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 16 july 2015 on the matter, concerning the reciprocity mechanism. the two mechanisms are two sides of the same coin, are balanced in terms of legislation and policy and have similar effects, and the procedures within them should be harmonised. due to the evolution of the political and migration situation, in particular in the light of successive visa liberalisation procedures, a revision of the suspension mechanism was necessary in order to make it more flexible and adaptable.
written. - i support this objection. the outbreak of xyllela fastidiosa in italy and the introduction of invasive alien species into europe demonstrate the need to ensure that all imports of plants or plant products are free from pests. one infected plant can destroy an entire sector or the economy of an entire region.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing directive amending annexes i to v to council directive 2000/29/ec on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community, because i consider that particular care should be taken with regard to the introduction of organisms which may be harmful to plants. the case of xylelle fastidiose in italy has shown the consequences that such pests can have on plants, on the local economy and on biodiversity. the phytosanitary risks must be clearly and thoroughly analysed and i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ this motion for a resolution deals with fruit susceptible to harmful organisms, namely black spot disease and bacterial carcinoma of citrus fruit. the current draft commission implementing directive is not in line with european union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation 2016/2031, which is to identify first the phytosanitary risks posed by a particular type of pathogen and then the mitigation measures to mitigate those risks. i think it is important to take samples from as many fruits as possible of each species in order to identify and locate any harmful patterns, and i therefore supported this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ caring for plant health is one of the main foundations for the development of sustainable and competitive agriculture, ensuring healthy and quality food, and protecting the environment in general. the progress of plant health also affects the stable and secure food supply of the national population and the introduction into the republic of croatia of plants and plant products infected with certain harmful organisms is prohibited. recently, we have witnessed the emergence of a dangerous disease that destroys olives, caused by the bacterium xylella fastidiosa (wells et al.), which originates from the americas. the deadly bacterium introduced into the european agro-ecosystem, destroying olive groves, is transmitted by insect vectors, and its emergence and domestication on the salento peninsula in italy represent a phytosanitary risk of the highest degree also for olive growing in the republic of croatia. the eu should identify the phytosanitary risks posed by any species, strain or biotype of pathogenic, animal or plant parasite harmful to plants or plant products and measures to mitigate those risks to an acceptable level. the old council directive 2000/29/ec does not provide the right answers to the risks of diseases such as black rot and bacterial carcinoma of citrus fruit. i therefore supported the eu resolution requesting an amendment to annex i.v to council directive 2000/29/ec on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community.
written. ‒ the draft commission implementing directive is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 to identify the phytosanitary risks posed by any harmful organism and the measures to mitigate those risks to an acceptable level. the commission was therefore asked to amend its draft implementing directive. the phytosanitary risk is particularly high in the warmer parts of europe. although most citrus imports for processing are destined for regions less susceptible to infected pests coming from outside europe, there is a risk that pests from northern europe could be transferred to warmer areas and thus infect citrus plants. the outbreak of xyllela fastidiosa in italy and the import of invasive alien species into europe demonstrate the need to ensure that all imports of plants or plant products are free from harmful organisms. one infected plant can destroy an entire sector or the economy of an entire region.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the resolution deals with the introduction of safeguard measures against the introduction of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and their spread within the community. the introduction of safeguard measures should take place as soon as the resolution enters into force. the european parliament considers that the commission proposal is not consistent with union law and is not compatible with resolution (eu) 2016/2031. therefore, calls on the commission to modify and adapt the proposal through the three modifications presented in the resolution to be forwarded to the council and the commission and to the governments and parliaments of the member states. i support this resolution because i believe that food and production need to be better protected.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: safeguards against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community having regard to articles 11 and 13 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. the draft implementing directive is not in line with the objectives of regulation 2016/2031. the draft should be amended to introduce a clause requiring that fruit from third countries must have a phytosanitary certificate and a statement that the area of production of the fruit has been treated appropriately. the following additional declaration is required to be attached: the area of production of the specified fruits has been adequately treated against phyllosticte citricarpe and the farming methods have been implemented at the appropriate time since the beginning of the last cycle of vegetation.
in writing. – i support this report because thalidomide survivors should be formally recognised in all member states concerned and finally be given adequate and fair compensation from the special health fund of the german contergan stiftung.
written. i voted for the motion for a resolution in support of the victims of thalidomide because i believe that such a mistake and playing with human lives must never be repeated. in the 1950s and '60s, the sedative thalidomide was given to pregnant women for morning sickness as a completely safe and proven drug, and then unexpected long-term effects occurred. more than 10,000 were born with severe physical defects, most often deformed arms and legs or without limbs. blindness, deafness, heart problems and brain damage in children are also side effects of taking thalidomide during pregnancy. this motion for a resolution, for which i voted, supports in every way the victims of thalidomide and calls on the commission and the member states to work together and to accelerate measures and activities to give formal recognition and compensation to those victims.
written. ‒ thalidomide was developed in 1960 and is approved as a safe drug for the prevention of morning sickness, headaches, insomnia, and colds in pregnant women. yet, taking this drug has had tragic consequences for many families, resulting in the birth of children with severe malformations. the resolution stresses the need to acknowledge this problem in order to ensure fair compensation for the victims. i supported this resolution.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on support for survivors of thalidomide. the resolution takes into account that the eu marked 50 years since the adoption of the first pharmaceutical regulations in europe to protect its citizens in september 2015. i recall that in may 2015, a press conference was held in brussels, with the support of all political groups, to highlight the unmet health needs of thalidomide victims. in the late 1950's and early 1960's, thalidomide was marketed to pregnant women as a cure for morning sickness, headaches, cough, insomnia, and colds, and its use caused the death and deformity of thousands of children in many european countries. even after the drug was withdrawn from the market, the authorities had a hard time dealing with the situation. it was difficult for them to explain the effects of the drug, to determine the number of people affected and to ban it, and at that time there was no legal framework for banning the drugs. the estimated number of european citizens currently living who have been victims of the german company gruenenthal and its drug is about 4,000, with the highest number in germany at about 2,700. finally, i think that the progress of the current european pharmaceutical regulation, which is firmly based on the precautionary principle and aims to meet high standards of quality and user safety, should be welcomed.
written. ‒ i support the movement resolution on support for victims of thalidomide. i believe that the recently published reports from the institutes in germany and the united kingdom express the need for greater support for the victims of thalidomide. thalidomide was used in the 1950's and 1960's to treat headaches, coughs, and insomnia. however, the shortcomings of the research carried out and the harmful effects of the use of thalidomide were only subsequently identified. i believe that the member states of the european union must submit coordinated measures to formally recognise and implement compensation for victims of thalidomide use. although the number of victims is not evenly distributed across all member states, there is a need to identify the problem at the institutional level of the european union and to respond to it adequately.
written. - thalidomide is a drug that was used about 50 years ago on thousands of women to relieve the symptoms of morning sickness. the drug was a product of the german pharmaceutical company grünenthal and was issued from 1957 to 1961, when it was finally withdrawn after it was found to cause certain deformities in children whose mothers took it during pregnancy. the use of thalidomide has caused the deaths of 2,000 children, and more than 10,000 people are living with severe disabilities today. what is especially sad is the fact that the company that made the drug only apologized to its victims and their families in 2012, but did not admit to the mistake. the thalidomide case was one of the main reasons for the establishment of eu pharmaceutical legislation, which led to a strengthening of the regulatory environment for the development of medical devices. i hereby call on the commission to create a framework protocol under which all european citizens affected by this pharmaceutical disaster will receive equal financial compensation and to establish a community of aid and support for all victims. the minimum that should have been done long ago is for grünenthal to admit its mistake and pay appropriate compensation to all the victims. that is what we all have to stand for here, and that is why i supported this report.
in writing. – many children suffering from rare paediatric diseases, such as cancer, do not have access to targeted paediatric medicines. that is why i support this report. we need to foster innovation in paediatric medicines to ensure that in the future all children can be treated with medicines that have been developed for and proved effective and safe for use for children.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on paediatric medicines because i believe that in the modern age there is a real need to work hard and effectively to reduce the number of malignant diseases and especially the number of deaths in children and young people, which in europe is around 6000 per year. this motion for a resolution advocates an important area of research that will spur a whole new wave of therapies for children with malignant diseases. the resolution proposes that the paediatric investigation plan should be extended to include the mode of action of each medicinal product as the basis for any paediatric investigation. this motion for a resolution, for which i voted, puts the emphasis on saving lives and calls on the commission to act urgently in implementing the changes through legislative revision.
written. ‒ the paediatric medicines regulation has helped to improve the overall situation and has led to concrete benefits in a number of paediatric diseases, but there has been insufficient progress in a number of areas, in particular in paediatric oncology and neonatology. it is therefore urgently necessary to assess how different types of funding can best be used to stimulate and accelerate the development of medicines to treat those cancers that occur in newborns and children. the early implementation of paediatric trial plans, early scientific and regulatory dialogue and cooperation with the european medicines agency with pharmaceutical companies allow for the improvement of the global development of paediatrics, which is why i supported this motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ childhood cancers remain the leading cause of death in children aged one year and over. every year in europe, 6,000 young people die of cancer. the current regulatory approach is not satisfactory for diseases specific to paediatric age and less than 10% of children with incurable and potentially fatal relapses have access to new, experimental medicines in clinical trials. early implementation of paediatric trial plans, early scientific and regulatory dialogue and cooperation with the european medicines agency (ema) and pharmaceutical companies are enabling the improvement of the global development of paediatrics. in line with the provisions of the third eu health programme (2014-2020), i underline the commitment to improve resources and expertise for patients with rare diseases. i also stress the importance of cross-border trials in the investigation of many paediatric and rare diseases and therefore welcome regulation (eu) no 536/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use, which will facilitate the conduct of such trials, and call on the ema to secure the infrastructure necessary for its application as soon as possible. i call on the commission to start working urgently on possible regulatory changes that could improve the current situation.
‒ the commission published its first report on the paediatric medicines regulation in 2013, stating that while there is promising progress in a number of areas, more time will be needed to thoroughly assess the impact of the regulation on paediatric medicines development. the regulation requires the commission to publish a second report in 2017. the purpose of this resolution is to seek clarification from the european commission on the progress of the report and to highlight areas and issues where the commission should consider amending the regulation. many cancers affecting children do not occur in adults, and the industry for such cancers, as well as for other diseases that occur only in children, has limited financial incentives to develop specific medicines for paediatric use. many children suffering from rare childhood diseases do not have access to targeted paediatric medicines. in many areas of pediatric medicine, there is a lack of the necessary innovation in the development of new medicines. the regulation has helped to improve the general situation and progress has been made in a number of paediatric diseases, but insufficient progress has been made in a number of areas, in particular paediatric oncology and neonatology. we need to encourage innovation in paediatric drug development to ensure that in the future all children are treated with medicines that are effective and safe and developed specifically for use in children.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the european medicines agency has a number of important tasks and responsibilities relating to the development of paediatric medicines. these responsibilities are assigned to it by the paediatric regulation of the european union. under the current regulatory framework, drugs are developed in a typical adult pathology that doesn't appear in children. in particular, childhood cancer remains the number one cause of death in children under one year of age, and more than 6000 young people die of cancer in europe each year, while two thirds of those who survive suffer from treatment-related side effects. the regulation is designed to better protect the health of children in the eu. i support this report because i believe it contributes to an improvement in the overall situation which leads to various benefits for a range of childhood diseases.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use. i welcome the efforts of the european union institutions to focus on research into earlier and more feasible paediatric screening plans, especially for children suffering from various forms of cancer. as childhood cancers remain the leading cause of death in children, with 6 000 young people dying from them each year and two thirds suffering from treatment-related side effects, additional and comprehensive investments are needed to help patients as effectively as possible. the european union needs to focus more and invest more to help this population and to use the mechanisms available to it to start earlier paediatric clinical trials of paediatric oncology medicines.
written. ‒ the aim of the paediatric regulation from the outset has been to improve the health of children across europe by enabling the development and availability of medicines from birth to 17 years of age. it has had a significant impact on the development of medicines for paediatric use and the number of clinical trials has increased, which is why i voted in favour. the regulation has achieved many of its objectives, but some shortcomings have also been identified, such as delays in the completion of paediatric studies and many problems related to paediatric oncology. on all other issues, we can perhaps forgive any shortcomings, but in this particular case, when it comes to the most vulnerable members of our society, our children, there simply must be no shortcomings. i call on the commission to consider possible legislative amendments to the regulation to give greater attention to priority medicines, to launch paediatric investigation plans earlier to make them more effective for all children in need and to ensure transparency in the research and development process. i also believe that, on the basis of scientific evidence, paediatric needs should be prioritised in order to provide the best available therapies in line with the therapeutic needs of children, in particular those with cancer, and thus optimise the use of research resources.
written. ‒ i support the draft motion for a resolution on the regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use. children are a vulnerable population and need special attention, especially in terms of health. in addition, medicines for the general population should also be taken seriously. i believe that research on medicines for children is absolutely necessary. this regulation was passed 10 years ago with the aim of conducting quality research for these medicines. the commission has already adopted a number of measures to ensure that the union's pharmaceutical industry is able to comply with the requirements of the new rules. especially since this is a vulnerable population - children. the commission adopted a progress report on this case in 2013. accordingly, it pointed out certain shortcomings. in particular, in june 2013, the european commission published a report on the first five years of the regulation. this suggests that paediatric development has become more integrated into the overall development of medicines in the european union. the european commission expects to publish a final report in 2017.
written. - i support this report. the committee has the potential to reconnect the institutions and citizens of the european union in a way that directly involves them in the assessment of the regulations on their daily lives.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the activities of the committee on petitions during 2015 because i believe that petitions play an important role in the legislative process in that they point out the existing gaps and shortcomings in the transposition of european legislation and allow other parliament committees to obtain useful and direct information for their legislative work in the areas in which they are competent. i believe that the european parliament should make greater use of, encourage and strengthen the right of representation, as this would make it faster and more efficient to deal with problems related to the transposition and application of eu legislation. the report, which i voted for, says that the house of representatives must regain the confidence of the citizens by listening to and addressing the issues that are troubling them.
written. ‒ the purpose of the 2015 annual report is to provide an overview of the work of the nominations committee. the report shall provide statistical information on the number of requests received, dealt with or concluded by the committee, the countries covered and the issues dealt with. the statistical data shall constitute an important quantitative tool for evaluating the work of the committee. the annual statistics for 2015 show that the majority of citizens seek parliament's assistance on issues related to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. according to statistics during 2015, the european parliament received 1431 submissions, representing a decrease of 47% compared to 2014. since the submissions play an important role in the legislative process, since they point out the existing gaps and shortcomings in the transposition of european legislation and allow other committees of parliament to obtain useful and direct information for their legislative work in the areas for which they are responsible, i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the activities of the committee on petitions during 2015, taking into account, inter alia, the right to petition and the fact that it is useful for parliament to be informed immediately of the particular concerns of eu citizens and persons residing in the eu, as provided for in articles 24 and 227 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the annual report aims to provide an accurate and complete picture of the work of the committee on petitions, whose work programme does not coincide with the commission's legislative programme but is determined by citizens themselves exercising their right to petition the european parliament and expressing their concerns about various eu policies and legislation. the report shall provide statistical data on the number of representations received, processed or concluded by the country concerned and the issues covered. compared to the previous year, spain remains in first place in 2015, followed by italy, germany, romania and poland (the united kingdom was in fifth place a year earlier). i would stress that the right to petition the european parliament is a pillar of european citizenship and a valuable source of information for identifying shortcomings in the implementation of eu legislation.
written. ‒ the committee on petitions is of particular importance because it has the potential to link the institutions and citizens of the european union in a way that directly involves them and also allows the impact of union legislation on citizens' daily lives to be assessed. the committee's work programme and activities are determined by the petitions submitted by citizens exercising their right to refer petitions to the ep. in addition to the committee's activities, the report also covers other aspects such as relations with other eu institutions and national authorities. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is a binding instrument for the union. i call on the commission to adopt a new approach better adapted to these expectations. the report also calls for improvements to the online portal where citizens can submit their complaints, as this portal promotes transparency and interactivity of the complaint submission process.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
‒ the purpose of the annual report on the work of the committee on petitions is to present an analysis of the petitions received in 2015 and the relations with other institutions and to present an accurate picture of the objectives achieved in 2015. the number of complaints received so far is very small compared to the total population of the european union, which means that eu citizens are unfortunately still not aware of the right to object as a possible means of bringing to the attention of the european institutions certain problems that are troubling union citizens. the european parliament's role in the european union is to provide a forum for the exchange of views and best practices, to promote the exchange of information and best practices, and to provide a forum for the exchange of views and best practices. the submissions are a valuable source of information for identifying shortcomings in the implementation of eu legislation. i support this report because i believe that the european parliament is the only eu institution whose representatives are elected by the citizens and it is they who can use their representation to highlight specific problems of the union and shortcomings relating to the eu legislative process.
written. ‒ i support the movement for a resolution on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2015. the decrease of 47% in the number of applications submitted compared to 2013 calls into question the involvement, information and interest of eu citizens in the issues of action. i support a stronger link between the eu institutions and citizens in the work of the committee of the regions. i also support the call for a guarantee that the commission regularly reports to parliament on the progress of infringement procedures initiated against individual member states in order to facilitate better cooperation and to allow the applicants to be informed of progress at an early stage.
written. ‒ the report on the activities of the complaints committee in 2015 provides a full annual overview of the work of the complaints committee, providing statistical data on the number of complaints received, the number of complaints handled and resolved by the committee, the number of complaints by country and the main topics of the complaints. i believe that the committee of the regions is very important for the realisation of citizens' rights and for expressing citizens' concerns about many eu policies and laws, because it is the continuation of the democratic process started by the elections. but while the committee of the regions is an important link between citizens and the institutions of the european union, i believe that it too should operate in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, i.e. it should not call on the member states for possible irregularities in areas of exclusive competence of the member states such as social policy. that is why i voted against this report.
written. ‒ i support the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2015. the annual report for 2015 shall provide an overview of the overall work of the committee on petitions. the report shall provide statistical information on the number of requests received, dealt with or concluded by the committee, the countries covered and the issues dealt with. the right to petition should strengthen the european parliament's ability to act, helping to solve problems mainly related to the application of eu legislation. the impact of eu legislation on the daily lives of europe's citizens can be assessed through submissions, while strengthening the european parliament's capacity to act can help to address problems mainly related to the implementation of eu legislation, as submissions are a valuable source of information for identifying shortcomings in the implementation of eu legislation. i support parliament's call on the commission to be more involved in the european citizens' initiative in order to develop it to its full potential and make it work. the committee on petitions has the opportunity and the challenge, following the latest events in the united kingdom, to engage with citizens, as it has the potential to bring the institutions and citizens of the european union together again, putting citizens at the heart of the european project and pointing them to the positive impact of eu policies.
written. ‒ i support this report on international air transport agreements.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on international air transport agreements because i believe that the european parliament should give its assent or express criticism to the conclusion or amendment of international agreements in areas to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies. whereas the commission has proposed, within the framework of the aviation strategy for europe, the opening of negotiations on civil aviation security with japan and china, and on air services agreements with china, mexico, qatar, the united arab emirates and the asean member states; i think it is important that the european parliament is kept fully informed of the next steps in the negotiations on the international air transport agreements.
written. ‒ the council authorised the european commission to propose, within the framework of the aviation strategy for europe, the opening of negotiations on civil aviation security with japan and china and to open negotiations on air services agreements with mexico, turkey and china, the six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and the asean member states. the european commission is obliged to inform the competent committee of the european parliament of its intention to propose negotiations for the conclusion and amendment of international air transport agreements. since the agreement is intended to ensure that the powers and responsibilities of the institutions are exercised as efficiently and transparently as possible, i supported this motion for a resolution.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european strategy for air transport in the context of the european year of air transport (2014-2020) and the european strategy for transport (2015-2020) (com (2016) 0173). the air transport strategy proposes to open negotiations for the signing of eu-level agreements on aviation security with japan and china, as well as agreements on air services with the following countries: china, turkey, mexico, the six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and the association of southeast asian nations (asean). the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on 8 march 2016 on the air safety agreements signed with china and japan and on 7 june 2016 on the eu-level air services agreements signed with the asean member states, qatar and the united arab emirates. the council is still discussing the draft negotiating directives for the opening of negotiations on eu-level air services agreements signed with china, mexico, armenia and the remaining four gcc member states. as parliament must monitor the negotiation process from the outset, i support this european parliament resolution on international air transport agreements.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the parliamentary activity.
written. ‒ the purpose of the report is to present a new aviation strategy for europe. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2004 was signed on behalf of ryanair and ams in 2005. the sector directly employs between 1.4 million and 2 million people and contributes €110 billion to the eu economy. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams. the objective of this aviation strategy report is to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of the whole eu air transport network. the eu should also extend the range of bilateral air safety agreements to achieve mutual recognition of safety certification standards in order to support global trade in aircraft and related products. i support this report because i believe that the adoption of an ambitious external aviation policy can contribute to improving market access and investment opportunities for european aviation in important overseas markets.
written. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. cooperation on civil aviation safety and air services at eu level can have positive consequences for eu citizens, but also for crew members and the aviation industry in general. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament with information on the implementation of the union's external action and to provide it with the necessary information on the implementation of the union's external action.
written. ‒ i support and value air transport agreements air safety agreements are currently under negotiation with china and japan, and air services agreements with asean countries, turkey, qatar and the united arab emirates. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's contribution to the financing of the common fisheries policy is limited to the amount of eur 100000000 in the form of grants and loans.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the international air transport agreement. the european aviation sector can fit into a competitive global environment and international agreements with china, japan, turkey, asean, mexico, the gulf members and armenia will greatly contribute to this goal. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 20 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. the eu's transport agreements with these partners aim to ensure market access based on acceptance of common rules. the eu's bilateral aviation agreements promote cooperation to ensure a high level of civil safety and environmental acceptability, and safety and security must be at the heart of all efforts to enhance the performance and efficiency of the single european aviation market to ensure consumer confidence and the global competitiveness of the eu aviation sector. in the context of these agreements, i consider that the commission and the council, pursuant to article 218 tfeu, should fully involve and report to parliament at all stages of the negotiation of international air transport agreements.
on behalf of the alde club. mr. president, we know how it went. there were lines that stood for hours at our border crossings. the trucks have been waiting for hours. rows that were miles long. i regret that there are not some colleagues here who are talking about how the unity within the european union should be broken and how this union should be destroyed. i am sorry that they are not here and that they do not hear and remember how we lived and how it was between our member states, but that is just a political message. i want to make it clear that what these new proposals are proposing to us here is something that will really, i hope, help us. the intention and goals to modernise the customs code in a way that uses digital technology is something that was certainly expected to come on the agenda and that we would have a chance to do business in a more uniform way. the fact that businesses will have greater legal certainty, and that there will be simplification of procedures and the various rules we have, is something that the business world of the european union rightly expects. we also expect that there will be appropriate solutions for e-commerce because it is very important. we know that e-commerce is increasingly present between member states and that eu citizens are increasingly trading in this way. in conclusion, i would like to wish all of you, especially you, mr president, a merry christmas and a happy new year.
mr president, commissioner, the new customs code brings about a concentration of customs regulations, simplification of procedures, which of course means speeding up the procedure. it defines the data needed to carry out this process and ultimately, because of all this, because of the leveling and simplification, acceleration leads to the simplification of doing business in general which will of course also lead to an increase in the competitiveness of the european economy, and all of this is of course part of the european strategy for growth and employment. that's why this is an important topic. the timing of this issue is timely because the customs code came into force this year and its implementation should be monitored very closely. i therefore thank and congratulate my colleagues on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for proposing this item on the agenda. on the other hand, it is very important that this whole process of introducing this code is monitored and computerized. that's why it's such a long transition period in a way. i would like to congratulate the commission representative in particular on the fact that he also referred to electronic commerce as a very important segment, in which the implementation of this code will of course also help. finally, thank you. merry christmas and a happy new year.
