i would like to highlight three issues in the very short time available to me. first of all, i would like to comment on the subject already raised by many colleagues here, namely the tax practices and distortions of competition by multinational companies and the situation of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. i'll be very simple, and i'd like to recommend this to the lady. i believe that many governments are interested in certain multinational companies, but i think that in europe, at the level of principles, it is worth saying that the small and medium-sized enterprises sector is at least as important. i would even go so far as to say that if any government gives a tax break to any multinational company, it should automatically be extended to the entire small business sector. the other is my country, hungary, and the situation at the paks nuclear power plant. i'm sure you've already dealt with this issue a lot, but i think the hungarian government is playing tricks and just stalling. i would like to see a professional, legally unassailable, but real investigation as soon as possible. and the last thing that has budapest all over the place today is the uber issue. my question is: when will there finally be a european basic regulation for services at community level?
vice-president of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.– madam president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), i would like to present this objection pursuant to rule 106 on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles, the euro 6 standards. air pollution causes over 430 000 premature deaths in the eu every year and costs up to an estimated eur 940 billion a year as a result of its health impacts. in particular, nitrogen oxides (nox) are major air pollutants which cause, inter alia, lung cancer, asthma and many respiratory diseases, as well as environmental degradation such as eutrophication and acidification. according to the eea, nox emissions are the cause of at least 75 000 premature deaths in the european union yearly. diesel vehicle exhausts are a major source of nox in urban areas in europe, and the euro 6 limit value for nox emissions from diesel vehicles is 80 mg/km under so-called normal use conditions. the draft measure, the subject of the objection, aims to establish the so-called real driving emission requirements to limit the tailpipe emissions of light passenger and commercial vehicles. the motion for a resolution considers that the draft commission regulation would result in a de facto blanket derogation from applicable emission limits, which is not compatible with the aim and content of regulation 715/2007 and exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation 396/2005. the envi committee objects to the draft measure, in particular because it would allow vehicles to emit 168 mg/km of nitrogen oxide in the real driving emissions test, applicable to all new vehicles from september 2019, which means four years after the entry into force of the euro 6 80mg/km limit value. surpassing the regulation by 110% is something that deeply undermines not only the regulation itself but also, i believe, the credibility of the regulating eu bodies. the resolution therefore calls on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and submit a new proposal by 1 april 2016 at the latest, introducing a real driving emissions test that would ensure the effectiveness of emission control systems.
it's a two-card draw. i am in favour of stricter regulations and compliance as a member of the environment committee, but i would like to ask you to help me decide whether the regulations were too strict or whether the industry is lagging behind in compliance.
vice-president of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.– madam president, from this debate this evening, i conclude that we more or less agree from a professional point of view that the conformity factor proposed by the commission is not realistic. it is a joke. even the commission regards it as insufficient to reach our goals. there was a lot of talk about the delay, but let us be frank. the regulation will come into force in 2019, so i think we have the time to improve this regulation and to spend some more time getting a better regulation which protects the environment and european citizens. i do not consider this approach of ‘take it or leave it as a proposal’, which is the approach taken by the commission to parliament, to be consistent with the democratic decision-making process. i would like to ask you to support this objection and to make the commission and the council come back to the table to improve the regulation. please, instead of being realistic, be brave in protecting european citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. - my fellow members of parliament! with millions of european citizens in mind, today's report clarifies many of the current social tasks. one of the initiators - i would like to thank mrs ward again for her excellent work - her main concern was to start from nothing but reality. the report clearly points to the unique role of the family, its potential to communicate our common values. in my experience, nothing can replace family when it comes to passing on values and knowledge. i'm glad we can agree on this fundamental issue from above the political camp. the social role of religions, even if indirect, remains dominant, contrary to all previous predictions. i want to emphasize that this is not a matter of belief, but a sociological fact. interfaith dialogue should be a fundamental part of youth policies. one of the things that makes religious communities different from any kind of civic organization is that they offer an alternative to human life from the beginning to the end. religions and their representatives have an important role to play in creating social cohesion. cultural diversity has received attention today because of the scale of migration that we didn't expect before. in the current european situation, it is almost impossible to decide who is an immigrant and who is a refugee. without responsible communities, there is no dialogue, no peaceful coexistence. that's what we've been trying to do.
in our common mother tongue, hungarian, i would like to ask mr navracsics whether he agrees that there are certain things in which cultural differences and relativism have a place and that there are things in which they do not because they are absolute and universal. at least in europe. that's what european human rights are. i would ask commissioner navracsics and my colleagues and the rapporteur what category they put women's equality, equal dignity and the right to bodily integrity and safety in. i am very confident that you will regard this as a european human rights issue, and that what happened in cologne on new year's eve, for example, which i would call europe's black night, will be regarded as a massive and gross violation of human rights. if that is so, mr commissioner, and mr president of the european parliament, why is this not on the agenda of the european parliament?
i would like to ask the european commissioner here a question on this subject. this particular new regulation requires three things that are essential from the consumer's point of view. one is very thorough information to consumers, the other is the responsibility of bank managers, bankers and the strength and determination of banking supervision. i ask you, commissioner, are you aware that in my country, hungary, the most serious social problem, not only in hungary but also in many other eu member states, is the tragedy of foreign currency borrowers? the fact that they were issuing fraudulent so-called foreign exchange loans in large numbers. i ask you, where were those expectations? why are these new requirements that the borrower needs to be properly informed that the banker has a responsibility, that banking supervision is needed? what is your position on this and what do you think the european union can do to help the hundreds of thousands of families who have been left in a tragic situation?
first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs barbara matera on her excellent report. it's a very important topic, and i'm very passionate about helping women to become entrepreneurs. not just because of the hidden potential for economic growth and development, but because it can be an important tool for women's development, for women's self-actualization. it is also important to encourage and support women in building entrepreneurial careers. but there are obstacles, as this report has spelled out very well. for example, one of the things that should be of paramount importance is creating financing opportunities, better access to business opportunity. i support the network because i think it's a good idea. it's a know-how that needs to be exploited. a few words about social enterprises. while these businesses are undoubtedly important, i do not think that they should be the only means of female entrepreneurship, the only opportunity for female entrepreneurs. not just because the honourable member asked for it, but because the report is important, i support it and i will confirm it with my vote tomorrow.
in writing. besides migration, one of the eu's most serious problems is currently the alarmingly high youth unemployment rate (hungary is 1.5% above the eu average of 22%) which affects some 5 million young people. at the same time, there are 2 million unfilled jobs in europe. this situation poses a serious risk to the eu's social cohesion and economic development. the report adopted today aims to make the european union's response even more effective, so that these five million young people can find a job as soon as possible. the report urges member states to implement urgent structural reforms in the field of education to facilitate the transition from school to the labour market. changes in the labour market require more flexible education systems that allow the complement and development of knowledge and skills at all stages of a professional career. it is important to develop general, basic competences and transversal skills and abilities, such as information and communication technology, mathematics, critical thinking, foreign languages, mobility, teamwork and communication, which will enable young people to adapt more easily to a changing social and economic environment. i think that in today's europe there is a great need for an approach that supports young people in such areas as their creativity, their ability to take risks, their failure-processing and their responsible behaviour. the current need in europe for an approach to education is to support young people's creativity, risk-taking and failure-management skills, and responsible behaviour.
on new year's eve, in public places in several german cities, a few hundred migrants who had mingled with the celebrants attacked, sexually assaulted and robbed other eu citizens. so it was an organized operation. for days, the police, and especially the liberal news agencies and media, concealed the fact of the insult and tried to conceal the true identity of the perpetrators. this kind of thing is not tolerated in europe. our rules, our laws apply equally to all. the rule of law is a shared european value. whether you're a migrant or a european, breaking the law has serious legal consequences. the responsibility of the perpetrators must not be doubted for a moment, and it must be examined whether the crimes could have been prevented by law enforcement measures. why the police on the scene were unable to control the situation or, under the influence of media pressure, did not dare to prevent the migrants from committing crimes. let's not be taboo, and let's not be blind.
the six-month presidency of the union cannot be expected to solve the problems that have accumulated. however, it is expected to give good answers to the main questions. the slogan of the presidency was 'a union for citizens'. the idea is to put the citizen at the center. we need a europe that is closer to the expectations of its citizens. well, that didn't come true. the migration crisis has shown how far this so-called political elite is from the will of the european population. among the priorities, he named the issue of migration: the regulation of migration. the quota system is the means to this end. he didn't want to solve and stop the invasion, he wanted to manage it, control it. the european union is also facing a major responsibility for the arrival of 1.5 million immigrants, which has put european culture, identity and the security of its citizens at risk. the only positive step would have been a relationship with turkey. he tried to stop immigration there, but he couldn't get the deal to work. another area of failure is its relationship with russia. extension of sanctions in time and content. the sanctions have failed to achieve their intended goal of weakening president putin, and have caused enormous damage to many eu member states and companies. the scale is failure.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. although i would like to ask my colleagues from the people's party who spoke earlier if there is any particular reason why you - although i agree with you that you have mentioned the many elements of the digital market in relation to the importance of this issue - why the people's party constantly omits elements in education, as if this were not important to you, i respectfully ask.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and join those who wished congresswoman evelyne gebhardt a happy birthday. it's a very comprehensive and very thorough work that the reporters have done. as a shadow rapporteur for the econ committee, i would like to focus not on the aspects that have been raised so far, but on the tax aspects. i think the world has basically passed us by, and we're lagging behind in regulation, officer. it would be important for the commission to be absolutely proactive in this area, precisely in order to ensure that consumers are adequately protected and secure in this digital market too. if i think about it from a tax perspective, and i look at e-commerce, i see that it's a collective concept, that any part of it, any element of it, can be taxed. however, there is too much bureaucracy in this area. i would like to see it much, much less, and support smes in that. i would like the digital single market strategy and the single market strategy to work together in harmony.
in writing. i welcome the strategy developed by the commission and the kallasgebhardt report before parliament. the removal of barriers to the digital single market is in the interest of all european consumers, not to mention the positive impact of the digital revolution on the european economy. i would like to raise one issue: the question of proportionality. in some cases, i have the impression that we are trying to set targets which are not necessarily in the best interests of the consumer or the trader. this could be the case in the area of e-commerce, including, for example, the achievement of the highest possible online trading rate. or we could mention the requirement for online retailers to offer the same discount to all european citizens. of course, if there's a regulatory problem or a market barrier, we have to deal with it, no question. but as policy makers, we have to propose standards that are really necessary and that can be enforced.
in writing. europe's digital lag in global competition is becoming more and more evident. how come none of the top 10 internet companies in the world are european? or that while the gray area is traditionally 30 per million people in europe, the united states gets 350 patents? i am convinced that if we had the right digital backdrop behind europe's leading global industry, we would not be talking about europe's declining share of the world economy today. that is why we need a digital lockdown in europe, a digital change of system! if the eu's digital single market strategy is implemented, the results will be measured in four million jobs and hundreds of billions of euros of economic growth. in the 21st century, europe without borders has no place for digital walls, roaming charges, restrictions on internet content or taxation of internet use. brussels and many member states have recognised this and have started to digitise public administration, education and the economy unconditionally. i'm convinced we have to go further than that. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union should enshrine the fundamental right to access the internet. in the interests of europe's digital development, we must ban internet taxation at eu level, so that the interest of european citizens is never put ahead of the interest of filling budgetary gaps. the digital single market strategy is the key to economic growth, job creation. europe cannot sit on its hands, and the digital transition is a prerequisite for preserving the union's role as a great power.
in writing. ‒ when deciding whether to suspend the immunity of a member in a given case, the european parliament applies its own permanent principles. one of those principles is that immunity is normally suspended where the offence is covered by article 9 of protocol no 7, provided that there is no serious and well-founded suspicion that the case was brought before the court with the aim of causing political damage to the member. in the present case, the request for suspension of mr czesław adam siekierski's immunity was made in connection with an alleged infringement of the rules on speed limits in a residential area. mr czesław adam siekierski admitted that he was driving the vehicle at the time in question, although he failed to indicate on the relevant form whether he accepted or refused to pay the fine. in the circumstances of the case, it appears that the alleged infringement and the criminal liability resulting therefrom clearly have no connection with mr czesław adam siekierski's position as a member of the european parliament. on the basis of the above considerations and in accordance with the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs proposes that the european parliament suspend the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ according to the polish high authority for traffic police, czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament, exceeded the maximum speed allowed in a residential area at 8:22 on 10 january 2015 while driving and therefore applied to the european parliament for the suspension of the member's immunity. in its report, the parliament's legal affairs committee found that the alleged infringement was not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by mr czesław adam siekierski and that there was no serious and well-founded suspicion that the request was made with the aim of causing political damage to the member, and therefore recommended that the immunity be suspended. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament the request of the polish high traffic police to authorise the prosecution of czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament, in connection with an infringement of the speed limit. the polish highway traffic police claimed that siekierski was driving in a residential area at 77 km/h and on being called admitted to driving the car and sent a photocopy of his european parliament id. following the s&d group's decision, i supported the suspension of the immunity.
in writing. ‒ when deciding whether to suspend the immunity of a member in a given case, the european parliament applies its own permanent principles. one of those principles is that immunity is normally suspended where the offence is covered by article 9 of protocol no 7, provided that there is no serious and well-founded suspicion that the case was brought before the court with the aim of causing political damage to the member. in the present case, the request for suspension of mr czesław adam siekierski's immunity was made in connection with an alleged infringement of the rules on speed limits in a residential area. mr czesław adam siekierski admitted that he was driving the vehicle at the time in question, although he failed to indicate on the relevant form whether he accepted or refused to pay the fine. in the circumstances of the case, it appears that the alleged infringement and the criminal liability resulting therefrom clearly have no connection with mr czesław adam siekierski's position as a member of the european parliament. on the basis of the above considerations and in accordance with the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs proposes that the european parliament suspend the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ according to the polish high authority for traffic police, czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament, exceeded the maximum speed allowed in a residential area at 8:22 on 10 january 2015 while driving and therefore applied to the european parliament for the suspension of the member's immunity. in its report, the parliament's legal affairs committee found that the alleged infringement was not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by mr czesław adam siekierski and that there was no serious and well-founded suspicion that the request was made with the aim of causing political damage to the member, and therefore recommended that the immunity be suspended. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ on 7 september 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament the request of the polish high traffic police to authorise the prosecution of czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament, in connection with an infringement of the speed limit. the commission has not yet received any information on the number of cases of infringement of the competition rules. following the s&d group's decision, i supported the suspension of the immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to incorporate the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) for the conservation of bluefin tuna into european fisheries legislation. i voted in favour of the report, in agreement with the group of the european people's party. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ the new basic regulation on the common fisheries policy introduced a landing obligation for bluefin tuna from 1 january 2015. however, this landing obligation is without prejudice to the union's obligations under international instruments such as iccat recommendations. in this context, the rapporteur would like to recall that the purpose of implementing the iccat recommendations is to ensure that they are applied uniformly throughout the eu and not to reopen debate on issues that have already been decided upon, often after lengthy negotiations covering every word and every detail.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and its adjacent seas. in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna with a deadline of 2022. the aim of implementing iccat recommendations is to ensure that they are applied uniformly throughout the eu, rather than to reopen debate on issues that have already been decided, often after lengthy negotiations covering every word and every syllable. i voted in favour of the document.
although i voted no, i like point (c) very much and unfortunately it is very relevant, especially in some post-socialist countries. competition policy is in itself a means of preserving european democracy in that it prevents economic and financial power from being concentrated in the hands of a few. the latter means that the holders of economic and political power, fused together, share among themselves, on the basis of quasi-feudal privileges, for example, the european union's money and other resources. in contrast, a true democracy is one where there is civilization and where the state maintains and enforces a competition policy where entrepreneurs have equal opportunities, regardless of what kind of crony circles, friendship circles, networks they belong to.
in writing. ‒ the report submitted by the economic and monetary committee contains calls and requests to the commission in relation to the 2014 competition policy review. it stresses, inter alia, that an effective and credible competition policy cannot focus solely on reducing consumer prices but must also take into account the strategic interests of the european economy, namely: the capacity to innovate, investment, competitiveness and sustainability, the specific competitive conditions of smes, start-ups and micro-enterprises. the report also contains statements that are in line with and contrary to the values of the party i represent, which i have assessed accordingly (acceptance or rejection) in the item-by-item vote. my final vote was against, because the report as a whole is an endorsement of the eu's competition policy, which is in practice to the detriment of the weaker member states (the periphery) because they cannot compete with the more substantially developed, richer central countries.
in writing. ‒ competition policy is an important tool for creating a level playing field for companies in the member states. i continue to believe that it is essential to put in place measures to ensure that all products imported from third countries comply with environmental, health and social standards applied by the union and protected on the world market, in order to protect european industrial producers from unfair competition and the health of the european population from undesirable effects. one typical example is the case of honey, whose import and repackaging raises serious questions in this area.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 competition report shows that the commission and its competition authority, which employs around 1000 staff, are the strongest single authority in europe to ensure competition in the internal market. the billions of fines imposed for illegal price fixing will need to be effectively supplemented in the future by penalties for the managers and directors of the companies responsible in order to prevent such behaviour more effectively. parliament hopes that the commissioner for competition will ensure that the union's competition policy plays a leading role in the creation of a market economy and european competition, that it is also advanced at international level and that it does not lead to too many sectoral and national exceptions and uncontrollable exemption thresholds.
in writing. ‒ the report is partly a good thing because it cannot be allowed that the commission simultaneously imposes the legal framework in the form of guidelines, and then is responsible for implementing its own guidelines and can impose heavy fines at will or for political motives. the latter refers to the campaign against my country, and now against poland. it is appropriate to extend the ordinary legislative procedure under the lisbon treaty to competition law, i.e. to involve the european parliament in the investigations. the report submitted by the ep's economic and monetary affairs committee already contains more than 100 calls and requests to the commission in relation to the 2014 competition policy review. however, it cannot be supported as a whole because it serves to maintain the disadvantage of the peripheral states and the later member states in a competition in which the old members started with a significant advantage, since they were not originally restricted in state aid.
in writing. ‒ the eu's competition policy is one of the pillars of the european social market economy and an essential tool not only for the functioning of the union's internal market but also for preserving european democracy, in that it prevents economic and financial power from being concentrated in the hands of a few. the economic committee's report on this point states that the commission's tasks will include the systematic review and preventive control of prohibited state aid which distorts competition through undertakings and certain member states or sub-units of those member states. the panel's report points out that the commission has previously expressed uncertainty, particularly in the digital economy, both as regards the question of where market dominance and abusive behaviour exist and as regards merger control, and notes that the commission should focus more on the current business model of the company rather than on a few factors that are less characteristic of actual market power when assessing competition. the report also identifies a problem with the control of member states' state aid procedures. in conclusion, it concludes that the commission and the competition authority are the most powerful authorities in europe in terms of competition in the internal market. it proposes that the billions of fines imposed for illegal price fixing be supplemented in future by penalties for the managers and directors of companies responsible, in order to prevent such behaviour more effectively. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report on eu competition policy. i believe it is right that the report has drawn the commission's attention to abuses of market power to the detriment of union consumers. moreover, it is legitimate to expect that unfair and unlawful clauses and practices used by the banking sector in consumer contracts will be subject to stricter controls. since, despite the work of the taxe committee of the ep and the european commission to date, tax avoidance and tax evasion practices by multinational companies still cause significant harm to eu taxpayers and small and medium-sized enterprises, it is of the utmost importance that the commission continues to use all the tools at its disposal, including the powers conferred on it under eu competition rules, to combat tax evasion, as requested in the report. in this context, i also consider it important to ask member states to publish information on their conditional tax rulings. the report rightly points out that in state aid cases the commission needs to examine the evidence provided by member states more intensively, as attempts to circumvent legal barriers are regularly made.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) contains binding rules in articles 101 and 109 on competition in the common internal market, based on an open economy based on free competition. the commission's 2014 competition report shows that the commission and the competition authority, which employs around 1000 staff, are the strongest authority in europe to ensure competition in the internal market. the billions of fines imposed for illegal price fixing will need to be effectively supplemented in the future by penalties for the managers and directors of the companies responsible in order to prevent such behaviour more effectively. i voted in favour of the report.
i could not support the report on intercultural dialogue, especially since it spoke very little about issues and values in which there is no room for dialogue. there is no room for intercultural dialogue, for example, on whether european women can go out in a mass to celebrate new year's eve in a public space. there is no room for intercultural dialogue about whether we european women can travel by train, let alone without a male escort. there's no room for debate about whether we should go to the gym or the pool. what is needed here is not dialogue, but that those who want to take away from us the rights that our mothers and grandmothers fought for, the right of women to equality and dignity and freedom, have their place in prison, or be removed from europe with immediate effect, back to the sender.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to draw lessons from and pass on the values of the 2008 year of intercultural dialogue and the member states' consultations. it is important to emphasise that culture and the development of cultural policy are national competences, which the eu is now trying to raise to eu level by this report, ignoring the principle of subsidiarity. another important problem is that it contains a veiled numerus clausus, which would allow the regulation of the appearance of groups of people of different religious and sexual orientations in education and culture along quasi-quotas, and create a multicultural propaganda regulated at eu level, over the heads of the governments of the member states. the aim is to achieve understanding and acceptance of cultural diversity among young people by establishing joint study programmes and extending existing ones. but it should be recognized that certain religious, cultural groups, in any form, in any tolerant behavior, are unable and unwilling to tolerate the other in relation to their own culture, their own religious precepts. the document does not contain the notion that people who know their own culture, who respect it, who consider it a defining part of their identity, are able to understand those who live in a different culture. on the basis of all this, i did not vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ the challenges addressed in the report require cultural dialogue and diversity to be integrated in a transversal way into all policies, such as child and youth, mobility, employment and social affairs, security and home affairs, women's rights and equality, and regional development. better and more coherent cooperation is needed between the different policy structures and themes, not only at eu level but also at national and local level. education and intercultural dialogue play an important role in the active and informed participation of citizens in social, political and local life. learning is a dynamic process that continues throughout life, and it is important to acquire different skills, including intercultural competence. the report underlines the role of the family in preserving cultural identity, traditions, morals and the value system of society, and emphasises that it is in the family that children begin to learn about the culture, values and norms of society, the nation and europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i was particularly pleased to vote today on the report on intercultural dialogue, which calls for the protection of traditional values such as the family, proper education and cultural diversity. the report emphasises the role of the family in preserving cultural identity, traditions, morals and the value system of society, as it is in the family that children begin to become acquainted with the culture, values and norms of society. the report highlights the benefits of consistent work across generations, through peer learning or within the family. i believe that in the present situation the most fundamental unit of society, the role of the family, must be strengthened if european society as a whole is to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ the challenges addressed in this report require cultural dialogue and diversity to be integrated in a transversal way into all policies, such as child and youth, mobility, employment and social affairs, security and home affairs, as well as women's rights and equality and regional development. better and more coherent cooperation is needed between the different policy structures and themes, not only at eu level but also at national and local level. the role of mobility and exchanges in facilitating intercultural dialogue should be emphasised. in this context, the challenge is to fully exploit the existing tools, and this also offers opportunities that are accessible to a wider range of participants, in order to include individuals affected by marginalisation, geographical and social isolation and other forms of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on culture and education takes the view that the european union is at a stage in its history when the notion of identity and belonging is being debated, redefined and defended, with serious repercussions due to the diversity of voices and different political perspectives. takes note that the paris declaration of 17 march 2015 is a strong resolution which welcomes the call for member states to take action to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in education and learning environments; the report seeks to build on the common agreement of eu education ministers that a joint effort is needed to prevent and address marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all. the report also recalls the need to give greater weight to the power of civil society to promote intercultural exchange, so that the empowerment of communities becomes a central element in strengthening the process of social cohesion. structural and sustainable support should therefore be provided to ngos, children's and youth organisations and training institutions, as well as to all relevant organisations and smaller-scale initiatives at community level. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the challenges facing europe and the world in the context of globalisation, migration, inter-religious and intercultural conflicts and the rise of radicalism. it also makes important recommendations for an open and respectful exchange of ideas between people and groups from different cultural backgrounds or worldviews in the european union. i agree with the statement that the european union must promote full respect for the universal declaration of human rights, both internationally and within its member states. i also support the idea of integrating cultural dialogue and diversity in a transversal way into policies such as child and youth policy or home affairs. better and more coherent cooperation is needed between the different policy structures and themes, not only at eu level but also at national and local level. finally, i share the rapporteur's view that respect and acceptance of cultures is not just a matter for the authorities and decision-makers, but for society as a whole. however, i would like to draw attention to the work done by individual member states in this area, which has not helped to promote intercultural dialogue but, on the contrary, has been a campaign of incitement. the european union must be clear about its opposition to such openly hateful activities.
in writing. ‒ the european union is at a stage in its history where the notion of identity and belonging is being debated, redefined and defended, with serious repercussions due to the diversity of voices and different political perspectives. the paris declaration of 17 march 2015 is a strong resolution which welcomes the call for member states to step up their efforts to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in education and learning environments. this report seeks to build on the common agreement of education ministers that a joint effort is needed to prevent and address marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation and to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all. i voted in favour of the report.
i did not vote for the report on eu regulation of financial services, partly because it prescribes things with future effects that were already rules in the past and would have been particularly important in preventing the tragedies of foreign exchange credit. what am i thinking here? the report includes, for example, the obligation to provide customers with thorough information when borrowing, which has been in place until now. it holds bankers accountable - they should have been - many of them should be in jail by now, and it has strong banking supervision. i don't understand why that didn't work either. i asked the european commissioner during the debate what the union wanted to do to help the very distressed, tragic foreign currency borrowers. of course, in his usual impudent manner, he didn't answer.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out the issues that should be examined in order to facilitate the path towards a capital markets union. preamble to the commission green paper on building a capital markets union and parliament's resolution of 9 july 2015 on the green paper. these documents, as their title indicates, deal with the implementation of the capital markets union. the report takes the view that, as the eu capital market remains fragmented, the commission should take measures to facilitate the creation of a single capital market. some measures are acceptable to mitigate the potential for financial crises, although it should be stressed that crises are a consequence of the financial liberalisation and deregulation of the 1990s and are not intended to reverse it, but only to limit it to a certain extent. the fundamental objective, however, is to achieve the full integration of the union in the financial field, which means the centralisation of measures in the financial field, and is thus one of the means of achieving the objective set by the union's leadership of an ever closer union, that is to say, of creating a centralised european empire. i disagree with that aim, so i rejected the whole report.
in writing. ‒ the financial and debt crisis that erupted in 2007/2008 required comprehensive action by european legislators and international standard-setters. since then, a number of legislative initiatives have been launched in the area of financial services in the union with the aim of restoring financial stability, strengthening consumer protection and implementing the lessons learned from the crisis. many pieces of legislation have already been successfully adopted and the deadlines for implementation and application have been met or are about to be met. this own-initiative report is a first step to provide an overview of this legislative work, to address the shortcomings identified in the financial services legislation and to respond to concerns raised in particular because the effects of individual legislative measures and their interactions have not been adequately analysed and the cumulative impact of the general legislation has not yet been fully assessed. in my view, important new commission initiatives such as the investment package and the capital markets union can achieve better results if they build on existing regulation on financial services that works effectively and efficiently.
in writing. ‒ the report supports the achievement of an objective whose reality is becoming less and less, and therefore can only be supported in detail. certain measures may be acceptable in order to mitigate the potential for financial crises. it is true that these crises are the consequences of the financial liberalization and deregulation that took place in the 1990s, and the report does not speak of reversing them, only of restricting them to a certain extent. the main objective is to achieve full integration of the union in the financial field, which is one of the means of achieving the goal set by the union's leadership of an 'ever closer union', i.e. a european union of the united states type. except for the weaker countries getting caught up in it. that's hard to agree with.
in writing. ‒ since the financial and debt crisis of 2007/2008, a number of legislative initiatives have been launched in the area of eu financial services, aimed at restoring financial stability, strengthening consumer protection, and drawing lessons from the crisis. the report of the economic and monetary committee aims to provide an overview of this legislative work, to address the shortcomings identified in the financial services legislation and to address concerns raised in particular by the failure to adequately analyse the effects of and interactions between individual legislative measures. the report is concerned about possible contradictions and inconsistencies in the current regulation and suggests to follow up the informal initiative that the commission launched already at the beginning of 2014. the combined impact assessment and the mandatory regular checks on consistency and proportionality ensure that the application of financial services legislation is less complex, accessible to smes and better adapted to their needs. the report states that the current legislation needs to be fully implemented and strictly applied in the member states. it considers it important that financial stability and consumer protection continue to be a priority for lawmakers and that greater emphasis be placed on the consistent application of the risk-based approach. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the overview and challenges of eu regulation of financial services. the current financial and debt crisis has indeed had unprecedented adverse consequences in europe, but by now the european institutions have managed to put in place a financial framework that has strengthened the eu's financial structure against future crises. however, i agree with the report that the capital market in the union remains fragmented and that smes and micro-enterprises continue to be severely affected by the lack of capital. the capital markets union can indeed provide a valuable framework to ensure equal access to finance for smes across the union and to foster the emergence of innovative forms of market-based finance. the capital markets union would provide an opportunity for smes to complement bank-based financing, an area in which the united states has made stronger progress since the financial crisis. i consider it very important and welcome that the report proposes an integrated approach to the commission with regard to the cmu, including the digital single market. furthermore, the rapporteur has very rightly emphasised the importance of consumer protection in the financial services sector. consumers should be informed in a quality, accurate, user-friendly, reliable, timely and, above all, understandable language that facilitates the right decision-making. however, it is a matter of concern that consumers are often confronted with unclear information that is not intended to serve their needs.
in writing. ‒ the financial and debt crisis that erupted in 2007/2008 required comprehensive action by european legislators and international standard-setters. since then, a number of legislative initiatives have been launched in the area of financial services in the union with the aim of restoring financial stability, strengthening consumer protection and implementing the lessons learned from the crisis. this own-initiative report is a first step to provide an overview of this legislative work, to address the shortcomings identified in the financial services legislation and to respond to concerns raised in particular because the effects of individual legislative measures and their interactions have not been adequately analysed and the cumulative impact of the general legislation has not yet been fully assessed. i voted in favour of the report.
i voted in favour of the report on the obstacles to women's entrepreneurship in europe, although i must stress, as i always do in the committee on women's rights, that we cannot speak of european women in general. the obstacles are quite different in post-communist countries, for example, as in my own country, hungary, where the main obstacle is the lack of civilization, and the fact that women do not have start-up capital and men do not really have start-up capital either. the communist comrades privatized the national wealth for themselves, or distributed it to westerners, giving the nation's funds to western so-called investors who set up assembly plants instead of starting a civilization by giving capital injections to those who wanted to live with dignity, with their heads held high as entrepreneurs, including a large number of women. that's the main obstacle in our case.
in writing. ‒ like the report, i am committed to helping women's entrepreneurship develop, as it represents a huge opportunity for growth and development to be exploited. it is not only relevant to the economy in general (i am thinking here of economic empowerment, job creation) but also to women's self-fulfilment (economic independence, important role in promoting gender equality, role model for younger generations). i am convinced that it is extremely important to encourage and support women in building entrepreneurial careers and, of course, to facilitate their access to finance and business opportunities. equally important is the reconciliation of work and life, as this balance helps to develop the potential to become a successful entrepreneur. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to congratulate ms matera on her excellent report. i too am committed to supporting and developing women's entrepreneurship, which represents a huge potential for growth and development, not only in terms of the economy in general (i am thinking here of economic empowerment, job creation) but also in terms of women's self-realisation (economic independence, an important role in promoting gender equality, a role model for the younger generations). i am convinced that it is extremely important to encourage and support women in building entrepreneurial careers and, of course, to facilitate their access to finance and business opportunities. equally important is the reconciliation of work and life, as this balance helps to develop the potential to become a successful entrepreneur. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i consider it important to help women's entrepreneurship develop, as it represents a huge growth and development opportunity to be exploited, not only at the level of the general economy (i am thinking here of economic empowerment, job creation), but also in terms of women's self-fulfilment (economic independence, important role in promoting gender equality, exemplary role model for younger generations). i am convinced that it is extremely important to encourage and support women in building entrepreneurial careers and, of course, to facilitate their access to finance and business opportunities. equally important is the reconciliation of work and life, as this balance helps to develop the potential to become a successful entrepreneur. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to congratulate ms matera on her excellent report. i too am committed to supporting and developing women's entrepreneurship, which represents a huge potential for growth and development, not only in terms of the economy in general (i am thinking here of economic empowerment, job creation) but also in terms of women's self-realisation (economic independence, an important role in promoting gender equality, a role model for the younger generations). i am convinced that it is extremely important to encourage and support women in building entrepreneurial careers and, of course, to facilitate their access to finance and business opportunities. equally important is the reconciliation of work and life, as this balance helps to develop the potential to become a successful entrepreneur. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to congratulate ms matera on her excellent report. i too am committed to supporting and developing women's entrepreneurship, which represents a huge potential for growth and development, not only in the general economy (i am thinking here of economic empowerment, job creation) but also in terms of women's self-realisation (economic independence, important role in promoting gender equality, role model for younger generations). i am convinced that it is extremely important to encourage and support women in building entrepreneurial careers and, of course, to facilitate their access to finance and business opportunities. equally important is the reconciliation of work and life, as this balance helps to develop the potential to become a successful entrepreneur. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to congratulate ms matera on her excellent report. i'm also passionate about helping women entrepreneurship grow. this is an area with huge potential for growth and development that needs to be exploited. i am not only talking about economic empowerment and job creation in the general economy, but also about women's empowerment (economic independence, important role in promoting gender equality, role model for younger generations). i am convinced that it is extremely important to encourage and support women in building entrepreneurial careers and, of course, to facilitate their access to finance and business opportunities. equally important is the reconciliation of work and life, as this balance helps to develop opportunities and become a successful entrepreneur.
in writing. ‒ as a representative of the hungarian people's party, i would like to congratulate mrs matera on her excellent report. i too believe that it is important to help women to become entrepreneurs. this represents a huge potential for growth and development to be exploited, not only at the level of the general economy (economic empowerment, job creation) but also in terms of women's self-fulfilment. economic independence is an important factor in promoting gender equality and a role model for younger generations. i am convinced that it is extremely important to encourage and support women in building entrepreneurial careers. we must do everything we can to make it easier for them to access finance and business opportunities. equally important is the reconciliation of work and life, as this balance helps to develop the potential to become a successful entrepreneur. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to congratulate ms matera on her excellent report. i too am committed to supporting and developing women's entrepreneurship, which represents a huge potential for growth and development, not only in terms of the economy in general (i am thinking here of economic empowerment, job creation) but also in terms of women's self-realisation (economic independence, an important role in promoting gender equality, a role model for the younger generations). i am convinced that it is extremely important to encourage and support women in building entrepreneurial careers and, of course, to facilitate their access to finance and business opportunities. equally important is the reconciliation of work and life, as this balance helps to develop the potential to become a successful entrepreneur. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ entrepreneurship is a mindset that enables individuals to turn their motivation and capacity to identify an opportunity and fully realize it. enterprise policy has been a political priority since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, but the european union is still lagging behind: in 2009, the proportion of entrepreneurs was 12% in the eu-27, compared with 27% in china and 21% in the united states. to get europe growing again and creating new jobs, the european union needs more entrepreneurs. the gender gap in entrepreneurship is still evident; in 2012, only 31% of all self-employed citizens in the union of 28 were women. directive 2004/113/ec expressly prohibits direct or indirect discrimination in the field of financial services, including bank loans. there is no evidence of direct discrimination in member states, as the refusal to provide financing to female entrepreneurs may also be the result of an economic logic whereby investors in more profitable and male-dominated sectors seek higher returns from larger companies. however, some evidence suggests that indirect discrimination, influenced by women's perceptions of access to finance, does occur.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that it is extremely important to encourage and support women in building their entrepreneurial careers, and of course to facilitate their access to finance and business opportunities. equally important is the reconciliation of work and life, as this balance helps to develop the potential to become a successful entrepreneur.
in writing. ‒ entrepreneurship is defined in the eu legal framework as a mindset that enables individuals to put their motivation and capacity to identify an opportunity and fully realize it. while enterprise policy has been a political priority since the launch of the lisbon treaty, the european union is still lagging behind: in 2009, the share of entrepreneurs was 12% in the 27-member union, compared with 27% in china and 21% in the united states. women entrepreneurs deserve special attention in this context, as equal economic independence is still not achieved in the european union. i voted in favour of the report.
i have abstained because of the substance of the report and because of points a, b and c. quote: 'there are currently 4.5 million young people aged 15-24 in the european union who are unemployed, and more than 7 million young europeans aged 15-24 who are not in employment, education or training.' the unemployment rate for young people in europe is 21.4%. point c. shows that young people have been particularly affected by the crisis. i would like to ask you to invite mrs. angela merkel and her friends here and ask them why, in these circumstances, they see the solution to the problem in inviting mass immigration from asia and africa to europe, when there are already enough problems among the young people of europe. please provide them with employment.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i voted for it, i supported it, and i have been an active member of this cause for the last year and a half, because there are few issues more important in europe today than getting young people into work. there are 7.5 million unemployed, uneducated young people in europe, and that's an astonishing number. if this continues, we cannot dream of a prosperous, prosperous and peaceful europe. we need immediate action on education, vocational training, social issues. and after the report points out how important the responsibility of the member states, the governments, is in this matter, i simply do not understand why on the one hand the hungarian government is undermining it, why it is destroying the hungarian education system, and i do not understand why the representatives of jobbik on this extremely important issue here in this house, why they stayed, why they did not support this proposal? so i propose that all of us, governments and european institutions, consider this one of our most important issues in the coming years. we need to create jobs for the young.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's decision deals mainly with youth unemployment (hungary has a rate of 1.5% higher than the eu average of 22%) and aims to make the eu more effective in responding to the need for almost half of young hungarians to find a job as soon as possible in a europe with only two million unfilled jobs. the decision is in line with the trend towards the union finally recognising that the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens must also be addressed, and that young people are particularly disadvantaged, with little or no experience and up-to-date knowledge. the report essentially mentions two dimensions of skills: the need to strengthen general skills, the so-called basic skills, and the need for further, continuous specialisation in terms of competitive knowledge. it also stresses the responsibility of economic life and the business-financial sphere. youth unemployment is also a challenge for family formation, not to mention that competitive skills (it skills, entrepreneurship, etc.) are increasingly challenging training systems, which must respond, adapt to market requirements and developments, and adapt to local and regional specificities. i voted in line with the people's party's position that the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental and that the efforts of the member states are indispensable.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today focuses on youth unemployment (hungary has a rate of 1.5% above the eu average of 22%) and aims to make the eu more effective in responding to the need for almost half of young hungarians to find a job as soon as possible in a europe with only two million unfilled jobs. the decision is in line with the trend towards the union finally recognising that the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens must also be addressed, and that young people are particularly disadvantaged, with little or no experience and up-to-date knowledge. the report essentially mentions two dimensions of skills: the need to strengthen general skills, the so-called basic skills, and the need for further, continuous specialisation in terms of competitive knowledge. it also stresses the responsibility of economic life and the business-financial sphere. youth unemployment is also a challenge for family formation, not to mention that competitive skills (it skills, entrepreneurship, etc.) are increasingly challenging training systems, which must respond, adapt to market requirements and developments, and adapt to local and regional specificities. i voted in line with the people's party's position that the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental and that the efforts of the member states are indispensable.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today focuses on youth unemployment (hungary has a rate of 1.5% above the eu average of 22%) and aims to make the eu more effective in responding to the need for almost half of young hungarians to find a job as soon as possible in a europe with only two million unfilled jobs. the decision is in line with the trend towards the union finally recognising that the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens must also be addressed, and that young people are particularly disadvantaged, with little or no experience and up-to-date knowledge. the report essentially mentions two dimensions of skills: the need to strengthen general skills, the so-called basic skills, and the need for further, continuous specialisation in terms of competitive knowledge. it also stresses the responsibility of economic life and the business-financial sphere. youth unemployment is also a challenge for family formation, not to mention that competitive skills (it skills, entrepreneurship, etc.) are increasingly challenging training systems, which must respond, adapt to market requirements and developments, and adapt to local and regional specificities. i voted in line with the people's party's position that the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental and that the efforts of the member states are indispensable.
in writing. ‒ the alarmingly high level of youth unemployment is one of the eu's most serious problems, with 5 million young people out of work. but there are 2 million vacancies. this situation poses a serious risk to the eu's social cohesion and economic development. in my view, the following factors should be taken into account when discussing the situation: globalisation, demographic change, economic crisis, new technologies and changes in work organisation. the creation of new businesses and self-employment also provide opportunities for participation in the labour market. changes in the labour market require more flexible education systems that allow the complement and development of knowledge and skills at all stages of a professional career. two dimensions of skills enable entry into the labour market and retention in employment: key competences (adaptability, learning to learn, initiative and entrepreneurship skills, communication) and specific skills related to specific jobs or jobs.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today focuses on youth unemployment (hungary has a rate of 1.5% above the eu average of 22%). the aim is to enable the european union to respond even more effectively to the need for almost half of hungary's young people to find a job as soon as possible in a europe where there are only two million unfilled job vacancies. the decision shows that the union has finally recognised the need to address the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed in europe, namely young people who are particularly disadvantaged by the lack of or lack of experience and up-to-date knowledge. the report mentions two dimensions of skills: the need to strengthen general skills, known as basic skills, and the need for further, continuous specialisation in terms of competitive knowledge. it also stresses the responsibility of economic life and the business-financial sphere. youth unemployment is also a challenge for family formation, not to mention that competitive skills (it skills, entrepreneurship, etc.) are increasingly challenging training systems, which must respond, adapt to market requirements and developments, and adapt to local and regional specificities.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today focuses on youth unemployment. it aims to make the european union's response even more effective by helping nearly five million young people to find a job as quickly as possible in a europe where there are only two million unfilled jobs. the union has recognised that the situation of nearly 12 million longterm unemployed european citizens also needs to be addressed seriously. in this context, young people are particularly disadvantaged, as they have little or no experience and up-to-date knowledge. the report contains two important elements: the strengthening of general basic skills and the need for further, continuous specialisation. these are essential to the acquisition of competitive knowledge. the document also stresses the responsibility of the business and financial sectors. youth unemployment is also a challenge for family formation, not to mention that my vote followed the people's party line, emphasising the principle of subsidiarity and the need for member states to make efforts.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today focuses on youth unemployment (hungary has a rate of 1.5% above the eu average of 22%) and aims to make the eu more effective in responding to the need for almost half of young hungarians to find a job as soon as possible in a europe with only two million unfilled jobs. the decision is in line with the trend towards the union finally recognising that the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens must also be addressed, and that young people are particularly disadvantaged, with little or no experience and up-to-date knowledge. the report essentially mentions two dimensions of skills: the need to strengthen general skills, the so-called basic skills, and the need for further, continuous specialisation in terms of competitive knowledge. it also stresses the responsibility of economic life and the business-financial sphere. youth unemployment is also a challenge for family formation, not to mention that competitive skills (it skills, entrepreneurship, etc.) are increasingly challenging training systems, which must respond, adapt to market requirements and developments, and adapt to local and regional specificities. i voted in line with the people's party's position that the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental and that the efforts of the member states are indispensable.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment in the eu is dramatic, at 24 million, and 7 million of them are not in education or training. in this context, the report commends the commission's efforts and urges support for economic immigrants, with due regard for the facts. the europe 2020 strategy is certainly not going to solve the problems. however, the report also outlines good guidelines, such as skills development, helping entrepreneurship, so it cannot be completely dismissed, but a much stronger substance would be needed to tackle such a major problem, as youth is the future.
in writing. ‒ the committee on employment and social affairs reports that one of the eu's most serious problems is the alarmingly high level of youth unemployment: there are currently 4.5 million young people aged 15-24 without work, and more than 7 million young europeans aged 15-24 who are not in employment, education or training. the unemployment rate in the union was 9,9% at the end of 2014, but more than double for young people, at 21,4%. but there are 2 million vacancies. this situation poses a serious risk to the eu's social cohesion and economic development. the report notes that the creation of new businesses and self-employment also provide opportunities for participation in the labour market. it also points out that changes in the labour market require more flexible education systems that allow the complement and development of knowledge and skills at all stages of a professional career. the report identifies two dimensions of skills that enable people to enter the labour market and remain in employment: key competences (adaptability, learning to learn, initiative and entrepreneurship skills, communication) and specific skills related to specific jobs or jobs. at the same time, it is necessary to link higher education institutions (also in financial terms) with the economic sector (industry, services).
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today focuses on youth unemployment (hungary has a rate of 1.5% above the eu average of 22%) and aims to make the eu more effective in responding to the need for almost half of young hungarians to find a job as soon as possible in a europe with only two million unfilled jobs. the decision is in line with the trend towards the union finally recognising that the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens must also be addressed, and that young people are particularly disadvantaged, with little or no experience and up-to-date knowledge. the report essentially mentions two dimensions of skills: the need to strengthen general skills, the so-called basic skills, and the need for further, continuous specialisation in terms of competitive knowledge. it also stresses the responsibility of economic life and the business-financial sphere. youth unemployment is also a challenge for family formation, not to mention that competitive skills (it skills, entrepreneurship, etc.) are increasingly challenging training systems, which must respond, adapt to market requirements and developments, and adapt to local and regional specificities. i voted in line with the people's party's position that the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental and that the efforts of the member states are indispensable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because for the 4.5 million unemployed young people aged 15 to 24 in the european union, every day spent without work makes the future more bleak, with more occupations facing labour shortages. such a degree of misalignment between education and training and the labour market requires an immediate response at european level. the report also makes a number of suggestions which, if implemented, would contribute to effective and widespread action to tackle the youth employment crisis. i support the point in the report that it calls for the creation of strong partnerships between local authorities, education and employment services, the social partners and the business community. the involvement of young, innovative employers in the dialogue between educational institutions and employers in order to better adapt education and training to labour market requirements is also a useful suggestion from the rapporteur. i also find the recommendation to teach entrepreneurship to be of paramount importance. however, to achieve this objective, it is essential to reduce administrative and financial requirements, as the report stresses, to make it easier for start-ups to access loans, venture capital and microfinance, to provide tailor-made advice or to introduce incentives for entrepreneurs employing young unemployed people, as appropriate.
i voted for the report on the digital market, but i was sad to read in paragraph c of the report that only 14% of small businesses use the internet as a sales channel. i think that micro-businesses are involved, and so i saw in front of me those personal acquaintances, friends, who are at home mostly with small children, elderly parents, etc., and they produce wonderful things, handicrafts, gift items or hungarian leeks, soups based on old recipes. i'd like to sell these. they could have some very cool businesses, a good living. why don't they take advantage of that? i will not be shy, and when i go home, i will look for the appropriate bodies and ask them what the data are at home in hungary regarding internet sales for micro and small businesses, and especially what the data are for women, because for them this would be a particularly convenient and intuitive solution. how could this data be improved? i'd appreciate it if you'd use your hammer a little more on the left, mr. president.
in writing. ‒ as a member of cult, i agree with empl that the education and training curriculum should focus on critical thinking and critical thinking, and on the use and thorough understanding of new media, digital and information tools and interfaces, so that people are not just end users but active users of these new technologies. in order to ensure a successful transition between education and training and employment, it is essential that people have transferable competences that enable them to make informed decisions and develop their initiative and self-awareness, which is also essential to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital single market. i therefore recommend that member states consider the benefits of a comprehensive transformation of education systems, curricula and working methods in a holistic and ambitious way in order to respond adequately to the challenges of the digital revolution.
in writing. ‒ the positive benefits of a common digital single market based on a common set of rules include growth, strengthening the single market and job creation. however, it will provide an opportunity for entrepreneurs to spread their innovative ideas and for the smooth functioning of the barrier-free cross-border e-commerce market. this innovative trend is impacting a large part of society and, more importantly, is creating opportunities for growth. it is important to mention that the opportunities are not limited to the challenges faced by all digital market participants. in order to make this market seamless, sustainable and accessible to all, efforts should be made to improve access to services, in particular with regard to unjustified territorial content restriction. this also includes the proposal to eliminate unfair price discrimination based on geographical location or nationality, which has the direct effect of creating monopolies and driving some consumers towards illegal content. this restriction on content undermines the rights of national minorities, as some content is not available in their mother tongue. we need to move forward step by step on this issue, after the competition problems have been resolved.
in writing. ‒ on 6 may 2015, the commission decided on 16 initiatives under the 'digital strategy for europe' to be implemented by the end of 2016. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the kallas-gebhardt report, which is the european parliament's response to the strategy proposed by the commission. the digital single market opens up new opportunities to boost the economy through e-commerce, and makes it easier for businesses to comply with administrative and financial regulations, and strengthens consumer rights through e-government. the digital single market requires a regulatory framework that facilitates the development of cloud computing, borderless mobile data connectivity and simplified access to information and content, while guaranteeing the protection of privacy and personal data, cybersecurity and net neutrality. the adopted report proposes further steps towards the completion of the digital single market and addresses the impact of the completion of the digital single market on society and the economy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ while the eu's trade legislation has been largely harmonised, the digital market is still fragmented and needs to be further harmonised, given the high level of cross-border traffic. unjustified territorial discrimination and content restrictions against consumers should be eliminated and consumer protection strengthened. the digital market also needs to strike a balance between excessive expectations and reality. it will not solve europe's accumulated economic problems or its unemployment problem, but there is no doubt that the rapid growth of online platforms has already led to economic recovery in the union and opened up new prospects. there are legitimate privacy concerns. the regulation should ensure that everyone has full control over the handling of their own data. it's going to be difficult to find harmony between the digital world, the resulting overwhelming mechanization, virtuality and the future of man as a soul-body being, but we have a duty to strive for it.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market offers a huge opportunity for eu businesses and companies to grow and for the eu labour market to fully recover from the economic crisis and the measures taken in its wake. the innovation in the digital sector is constantly changing the way citizens communicate, share and consume, and even their behaviour, and therefore innovation offers new opportunities for both businesses and consumers. the use of digital technologies is also increasingly facilitating citizens' access to information and culture, increasing their employment opportunities and making a wider range of products available to them. it also offers the opportunity to make the governance and administration of the union and the member states more efficient. the joint report by the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, in response to the european commission's proposal 16, provides further details on the steps needed to complete the digital single market and the impact of the completion of the digital single market on society and the economy as a whole. it points out that stimulating a dynamic economy is essential for innovation to flourish and innovative companies to expand, and that this is what the european commission, together with the member states, should focus on. more needs to be done to promote an entrepreneurial culture, including innovative business models, and to connect europe's many successful technology hubs. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because e-commerce, which generates a very high volume of traffic in the eu, also offers many new opportunities for smes. i fully agree with the rapporteurs when they ask the commission to identify and eliminate obstacles to e-commerce, such as the lack of common standards, inadequate consumer protection information and insufficient access to cross-border payment methods, in order to make the e-commerce market truly cross-border. the trust of citizens and businesses in the digital environment is essential to unlock the innovation and growth potential of the digital economy, as the business model of digital businesses is based on user trust. we can ensure this through data protection and security standards, and a high level of consumer protection and awareness. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. such measures include reviewing unjustified territorial content restrictions, encouraging private investment in high-speed communications networks through a stable eu regulatory framework, and promoting digital skills and raising the level of general media literacy and internet literacy across europe. finally, i was pleased to see that the report addressed the challenges facing the community economy and called on the commission to identify the obstacles to this.
in writing. ‒ on 6 may 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a communication on a 'digital strategy for europe' containing an initiative to be implemented by the end of 2016. the comparison of the digital single market and the single market has made it clear to the legislators that the former offers a huge opportunity for the expansion of eu businesses and companies and for the full recovery of the eu labour market, which was shattered by the economic crisis and the measures taken in its wake. encouraging a dynamic economy is essential for innovation to flourish and innovative companies to expand, and the european commission should focus on this together with the member states. i voted in favour of the report.
listening to this debate, i was struck by what we do here in the european parliament. i feel it is unworthy to hold the commission or the council responsible for errors and shortcomings in the member states. so here the member states have a very serious responsibility. for example, mrs merkel's welcoming words were welcomed by many, but the question remained, does anyone, even a german chancellor, have the right to invite 1 million people into a common space? and then, of course, we all struggle with it. then there are those who built the fence and those who didn't. and most importantly. now, some fences are about to close again. what about the balkans? how are we gonna handle that? these are real issues, and i think that the autonomy of the member states must be rejected here and that the council and the commission must be brought into line.
in writing. the new party-political action of the left and liberal factions is weakening european unity, which is the prerequisite for dealing with the really important crises. the government that won the majority in the recent free and democratic elections in poland has the right to pursue its policy without regard to left-wing and liberal political dogmas. the democratic decision of a member state cannot be overruled either in brussels or in strasbourg. europe faces urgent challenges that will determine the future of the whole of integration. the migration crisis is far from over, the threat of terrorism is growing, and a european solution remains elusive; the united kingdom is considering leaving the union; the greek economic crisis continues to pose risks to the european economy as a whole. instead of solving these problems, the left-wing factions are putting forward partisan debates. in the current crisis, this is damaging the union's judgement and ability to act.
in writing. the new party-political action of the left and liberal factions is weakening european unity, which is a prerequisite for dealing with the really important crises. the government that won the majority in the recent free and democratic elections in poland has the right to pursue its policy without regard to left-wing and liberal political dogmas. the democratic decision of a member state cannot be overruled either in brussels or in strasbourg. europe faces urgent challenges that will determine the future of the whole of integration. the migration crisis is far from over, the threat of terrorism is growing, and a european solution remains elusive; the united kingdom is considering leaving the union; the greek economic crisis continues to pose risks to the european economy as a whole. instead of solving these problems, the left-wing factions are putting forward partisan debates. in the current crisis, this is damaging the union's judgement and ability to act.
in writing. the new party-political action of the left and liberal factions is weakening european unity, which is a prerequisite for dealing with the really important crises. the government that won the majority in the recent free and democratic elections in poland has the right to pursue its policy without regard to left-wing and liberal political dogmas. the democratic decision of a member state cannot be overruled either in brussels or in strasbourg. europe faces urgent challenges that will determine the future of the whole of integration. the migration crisis is far from over, the threat of terrorism is growing, and a european solution remains elusive; the united kingdom is considering leaving the union; the greek economic crisis continues to pose risks to the european economy as a whole. instead of solving these problems, the left-wing factions are putting forward partisan debates. in the current crisis, this is damaging the union's judgement and ability to act.
in writing. the new party-political action of the left and liberal factions is weakening european unity, which is a prerequisite for dealing with the really important crises. the government that won the majority in the recent free and democratic elections in poland has the right to pursue its policy without regard to left-wing and liberal political dogmas. the democratic decision of a member state cannot be overruled either in brussels or in strasbourg. europe faces urgent challenges that will determine the future of the whole of integration. the migration crisis is far from over, the threat of terrorism is growing, and a european solution remains elusive; the united kingdom is considering leaving the union; the greek economic crisis continues to pose risks to the european economy as a whole. instead of solving these problems, the left-wing factions are again using a double standard to put party-political debates first. in the current crisis, this is damaging the union's judgement and ability to act.
in writing. the new party-political action of the left and liberal factions is weakening european unity, which is the prerequisite for dealing with the really important crises. the government that won the majority in the recent free and democratic elections in poland has the right to pursue its policy without regard to left-wing and liberal political dogmas. the democratic decision of a member state cannot be overruled either in brussels or in strasbourg. europe faces urgent challenges that will determine the future of the whole of integration. the migration crisis is far from over, the threat of terrorism is growing, and a european solution remains elusive; the united kingdom is considering leaving the union; the greek economic crisis continues to pose risks to the european economy as a whole. instead of solving these problems, the left-wing factions are putting forward partisan debates. in the current crisis, this is damaging the union's judgement and ability to act.
in writing. as i have tried to point out on many occasions in the debates in hungary, they were not about my country, but about whether we can act effectively to preserve our common european democratic values when they are threatened. among other things, the regrettable consequence of the eu's failure to act effectively is what is now causing concern and controversy in poland. the polish government's measures to undermine the rule of law bear a striking resemblance to the arbitrary measures of the two-thirds hungarian government in 2010, we have set a negative example by electing pro-government constitutional judges and turning the public media into an unveiled government channel. the eu was only able to provide a partial response at the time, failing to prevent the systemic erosion of democracy in hungary, partly contributing to the apathy that is now widespread in hungarian society. the new polish government has been in office for only a short time, but already there are signs of discontent in society: 50,000 demonstrations against the election of constitutional judges are a remarkable manifestation of this. the pressing question is whether, like hungary, polish society will also become apathetic, or whether, thanks to more effective european action, the polish government's actions against the rule of law will be curbed, thus proving that the eu is really working primarily in the interests of its electorate. deep apathy undermines the stability of the rule of law, and the eu must do everything it can to prevent such societies from emerging.
in writing. the new party-political action of the left and liberal factions is weakening european unity, which is a prerequisite for dealing with the really important crises. the government that won the majority in the recent free and democratic elections in poland has the right to pursue its policy without regard to left-wing and liberal political dogmas. the democratic decision of a member state cannot be overruled either in brussels or in strasbourg. europe faces urgent challenges that will determine the future of the whole of integration. the migration crisis is far from over, the threat of terrorism is growing, and a european solution remains elusive; the united kingdom is considering leaving the union; the greek economic crisis continues to pose risks to the european economy as a whole. instead of solving these problems, the left-wing factions are putting forward partisan debates. in the current crisis, this is damaging the union's judgement and ability to act.
in writing.– it is highly regrettable that at this time the left side of the house should be focusing their attention on poland and not on other, far more dangerous problems. the government of poland was elected democratically and has the right to pursue policies that it regards as appropriate, whether one approves of these policies or not. that is democracy. the eu should concentrate its efforts on resolving problems arising from terrorism, from the migrant crisis, the fate of the euro, the future of ukraine, the future of the united kingdom’s relationship with the eu, the collapse of state authority in the middle east, to name but a few. playing party politics at this time is irresponsible and raises question marks over the future of the eu itself.
in writing. the new party-political action of the left and liberal factions is weakening european unity, which is the prerequisite for dealing with the really important crises. the government that won the majority in the recent free and democratic elections in poland has the right to pursue its policy without regard to left-wing and liberal political dogmas. the democratic decision of a member state cannot be overruled either in brussels or in strasbourg. europe faces urgent challenges that will determine the future of the whole of integration. the migration crisis is far from over, the threat of terrorism is growing, and a european solution remains elusive; the united kingdom is considering leaving the union; the greek economic crisis continues to pose risks to the european economy as a whole. instead of solving these problems, the left-wing factions are putting forward partisan debates. in the current crisis, this is damaging the union's judgement and ability to act.
in writing. the debate repeatedly drew parallels with the process of dismantling democracy in hungary. in this context, i would like to draw attention to two aspects, which are also important lessons for dealing with the polish situation: 1./ the warnings and debates of the ep and the commission so far have had almost no effect on the policy of the orbán regime, which apart from some tactical legal corrections has intensified the construction of a corrupt, authoritarian, anti-eu regime has been granted the right to be a member of the union. 2./ orbán is now a bigger challenge to the eu than kaczinsky's policy in at least two areas: a) undermining the common european aspirations in the framework of the cfsp and the energy union with his putin-inspired eastern and energy policies; b) the essence of the regime is corruption, including the diversion of european subsidies almost entirely to the interests of political friends and the objectives of his own family businesses. one of the important messages of this debate in parliament should be that the european institutions finally need to take more targeted, more concrete action to effectively restrict the regime's funding mutatis mutandis in order to restore both the hungarian and the polish democratic rule of law in line with european values.
in writing. the new party-political action of the left and liberal factions is weakening european unity, which is the prerequisite for dealing with the really important crises. the government that won the majority in the recent free and democratic elections in poland has the right to pursue its policy without regard to left-wing and liberal political dogmas. the democratic decision of a member state cannot be overruled either in brussels or in strasbourg. europe faces urgent challenges that will determine the future of the whole of integration. the migration crisis is far from over, the threat of terrorism is growing, and a european solution remains elusive; the united kingdom is considering leaving the union; the greek economic crisis continues to pose risks to the european economy as a whole. instead of solving these problems, the left-wing factions are putting forward partisan debates. in the current crisis, this is damaging the union's judgement and ability to act.
in writing. donald tusk, the conservative polish president of the european council, is wrong to think that polish civilians are strong enough to resist the government's illiberal power-building. we hungarians thought so too. and the orban virus is now spreading like a dangerous infection. if the european union can demonstrate that such a policy has no place in our society, then its spread can be prevented. if you continue to have a war of words and try to label a country as a whole, rather than its governments, then new anti-democratic, populist politicians will be strengthened. european populists, unite! we are not against the eu! if the european community and the conservative people's party had solved the hungarian problem in time and in good faith, there would be no polish problem. enough of the more sane european right wing still covering for orbán. enough with the european people's party and even supporting the spread of the orban virus. if europe is hit by the illiberal virus, it will be the responsibility of the pp.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, nathalie griesbeck, for her excellent job with this very complex and important file. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental principle of law and an essential element of the right to a fair trial. the piece of legislation that we are about to vote on is a very important contribution to guaranteeing fair trials in the european union and ensuring respect for the rights of the defence. as epp shadow rapporteur, i am satisfied by this balanced document. for us, it was important to guarantee the rights of the suspects and accused persons, reinforcing the very basic principle of the presumption of innocence without endangering the sense of law enforcement. i am glad we achieved a rightly balanced compromise and were able to set up a minimum standard in legal proceedings that, once in force in all member states, will contribute to the efficiency of our common legal system in europe.
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, you have made some suggestions about the new challenges and i agree with some of the ones you have listed. but i respectfully ask you, what do you think about this new phenomenon that if we continue to build fences here in eastern europe, whether it's the german border, the austrian border, the slovenian border, the croatian border, one or two more fences, what are the challenges that we're going to face in the balkans, where there are no eu countries, but refugees are going to be concentrated?
prime minister! is it news to you that the citizens of europe want to know what you personally and the incoming dutch presidency - and thus the european union - intend to do about the increasing number of migrants? i'm asking you to answer this question. i don't want to make the mistake of asking you and answering you, but we're waiting for your answer to this question. we are also waiting for your answer to the question of how long the silence in the european union will continue regarding the dark night of europe on 31 december 2015, with all that happened in cologne. do you want to explore this and do you want to address the growing phenomenon of violence against women by migrants? and do you wish to address the plight of the suffering truck drivers in calais? do you want to find some kind of solution to this? i'm waiting for your answers.
prime minister! my fellow members of the house of representatives! as the people's party responsible for the parliament's report on the energy union, i welcome the fact that the dutch presidency has made forward-looking climate and energy policy one of its priorities. i agree that you want to give priority to the achievement of the sustainability goals and the implementation of the tasks arising from the paris climate summit 2015. i also believe that when we talk about energy policy, we should also talk about protecting the international competitiveness of european industry. high energy prices, administrative burdens and inadequate trade policies are putting europe's energy-intensive industries at risk. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission is organising a conference in mid-february on the challenges facing energy-intensive industries and hope that there will be tangible results from this meeting. i would also ask the dutch presidency to place industrial and trade policy considerations at the top of its agenda alongside climate policy. a good example is the proper treatment of industries exposed to coal leakage in the ongoing reform of the emissions trading system. or in the longer term, to look at the possibility of co2 adjustment at the border. in making trade policy decisions, it is important to ensure that products from third countries which are more competitive than those produced in europe only because they have to comply with less stringent environmental or labour standards, for example, are not allowed to penetrate european markets. prime minister! in my view, only a combination of climate, industrial and trade policy can ensure europe's economic growth and create more jobs.
prime minister! you have put together an excellent, professional program covering all the important issues. i'd say business as usual, but it's not. the european union is experiencing perhaps the greatest crisis in its history. the culture and politics of populism and closure are spreading. europe was once again divided, as if the berlin wall had never fallen. look at what's happening in the eastern european member states. for these countries, the european union, once an example and a hope, is now being turned away and the fundamental european values are being scorned. at the same time, millions of europeans feel that the european union has failed them, that the union lacks the political and moral courage to stand up to populist governments, to defend what we have been slowly building for 60 years, to defend our fundamental values. what do you say to these citizens, what do you say to them? i am a great admirer of the netherlands, and i sincerely hope that you will have the strength and courage to face this challenge.
mr prime minister! if the polish prime minister had made the same responsible speech yesterday from that chair, and the hungarian prime minister a few months ago, with the same european values, we would have had fewer problems here in the european union. i enjoyed the talk, but i still have to ask you about something you didn't mention. because i am one of those - as a hungarian - as a member of the 105 million new eu citizens, who are worried because we have been reading for weeks and months that the dutch presidency is planning to take concrete steps towards a two-speed europe - for the core and for the marginalised countries on the periphery. mr. president, are you planning to do this? because then we're in a very difficult position. because instead of some irresponsible, populist heads of government in central and eastern europe, they can't punish these 105 million citizens. give me an answer to that.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we authorised latvia to receive and supply personal data in accordance with the council decision regarding vehicle registration data. we favour this decision as it falls in the broader effort to strengthen cooperation among member states on improving cross-border data exchange, which is crucial for law enforcement authorities in fighting criminal organisations and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the council has submitted a draft implementing decision which considers latvia to fulfil the conditions set out in council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of cross-border cooperation to combat terrorism and cross-border crime and which intends to authorise latvia to participate in the automated exchange of vehicle registration data by receiving and transmitting personal data. the treaty on european union requires the council to consult the european parliament before adopting a decision. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has recommended that parliament approve the draft. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which is an important step towards completing the single european market and strengthening crossborder cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. it should be noted that the part of the decision concerning the transfer of personal data cannot enter into force until the preconditions such as ensuring data protection are transposed into the relevant national legislation. latvia has fulfilled the preconditions and the way can be opened for cooperation. the automatic exchange of vehicle registration data is in line with other relevant european council regulations and was preceded by a pilot cooperation programme launched by the netherlands. i also consider it important to note that denmark and ireland, in addition to latvia, are taking steps to adopt and apply the decision.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on european union, the council has consulted the parliament. cross-border cooperation should be strengthened in order to combat terrorism and cross-border crime effectively. so i voted in favour of the motion.
i voted for the report on the presumption of innocence. moreover, the presumption of innocence is so necessary to protect the citizen of every day, the individual of every day, from the excesses and abuses of every day's power. this is especially true when the authorities want to use the possibility of criminal prosecution and arrest for political reasons, as the romanian state does with our hungarian brothers in the so-called istván beke case. here we see what the presumption of innocence would mean. it just so happens that the burden of proof is on the authorities. evidence should be presented or the accused should be presented as guilty. this is not happening. similarly, the detention and pre-trial detention cannot be considered as a pre-trial punishment, so, for example, it is allowed... (the chairman interrupted the member)
in writing. ‒ the report on the reinforcement of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings and the right to be present at one's trial makes a major contribution to ensuring due process in the european union and guarantees the right of defence. it was important to me that the presumption of innocence, one of the most fundamental rights of the accused or suspect, be guaranteed. this provides greater protection for the accused or suspect in europe without undermining the proper administration of justice. a balanced compromise was negotiated in setting minimum standards in this aspect of criminal procedure. once this is put into practice by all member states, our common european legal system will become more effective.
in writing. ‒ the report on the reinforcement of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings and the right to be present at one's trial makes a major contribution to ensuring due process in the european union and guarantees the right of defence. it was important to the people's party to ensure that the most fundamental right of the accused or suspect, the presumption of innocence, was guaranteed. this provides greater protection for the accused or suspect in europe without undermining the proper administration of justice. a balanced compromise was negotiated in setting minimum standards in this aspect of criminal procedure. once this is put into practice by all member states, our common european legal system will become more effective.
in writing. ‒ i also welcome the fact that the commission has presented the final package on procedural rights, which includes three proposals for directives following the first three instruments adopted under the eu roadmap for strengthening procedural rights. these three directives will allow the finalisation of the existing european legal framework on the rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings in the european union. the three directives are essential tools for guaranteeing a fair trial throughout the european union and ensuring full respect for the right to a fair hearing guaranteed by the eu treaties, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights (echr). i therefore also support the commission's proposal for a directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings and the right to be present at one's own trial. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle to avoid arbitrariness and abuse in criminal proceedings and a fundamental principle for the protection of the right to a fair trial, as set out in article 6 of the european convention on human rights, article 48 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights. the proposal for a directive is all the more important because the rights of suspects and accused persons are being curtailed and the principle of the presumption of innocence is being eroded in many member states of the european union today.
in writing. ‒ the report on the reinforcement of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings and the right to be present at one's trial makes a major contribution to ensuring due process in the european union and guarantees the right of defence. it was important to the people's party to ensure that the most fundamental right of the accused or suspect, the presumption of innocence, was guaranteed. the amendment provides greater protection for the accused or suspect in europe without undermining the proper administration of justice. a balanced compromise was negotiated in setting the minimum standards for this stage of the criminal proceedings. if the new rule is put into practice by all member states, the efficiency of our common european legal system will be greatly increased.
in writing. - if anyone, i know what it means to trample the presumption of innocence. there are incredible connections between politics, some of the actors in the supposedly independent judiciary and the press, which were recently unveiled by the much-viewed german journalist udo ulfkotte. this report aims to strengthen fundamental freedoms, establish important procedural guarantees and help restore citizens' severely shaken trust in the rule of law. i've rarely come across a report that's as concise, with as much detail as this, that's really worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings and of the right to be present at one's own trial. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs states that the proposal is a fundamental instrument to guarantee a fair trial throughout the european union and to ensure full respect for the right to a fair trial guaranteed by the eu treaties, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights (echr), and therefore parliament adopts the draft with a number of amendments. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented the final package on procedural rights, which includes three proposals for directives following the first three instruments adopted under the european union roadmap for strengthening procedural rights. these three directives will allow the finalisation of the existing european legal toolbox on the rights of the defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings in the european union: the three directives are essential tools to guarantee due process throughout the european union and to ensure full respect for the right to a fair trial guaranteed in the eu treaties, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights (echr). i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of strict requirements for personal protective equipment. as the proposal is primarily concerned with modernising and simplifying an already well-functioning system, the rapporteur considers that no significant change in its objectives is necessary. instead, based on the interests articulated by member states and the safety industry associations, the amendments focused on creating clarity in a number of areas.
in writing. ‒ significant progress is being made in the eu in the field of occupational safety and health, and this report is a good way to reinforce this further. it is an important objective to develop and launch products that are adapted to the needs of end-users. indeed, it is necessary to take into account who is wearing the equipment and to distinguish between categories of users. accidents at work and health damage must be avoided by all means possible and action at eu level can do much to help achieve this. many warning signs point to past shortcomings, such as the staggering number of injuries, deaths, and insulation that has been waiting to be removed as a ticking time bomb since the processing, installation, and application of asbestos.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the placing of personal protective equipment on the union market. the placing on the market of personal protective equipment in the union is harmonised by council directive 89/686/eec. over the past 25 years, the directive has made it possible to create a well-functioning single market, but it still needs to be updated in line with the new legislative framework, a package of measures to streamline and simplify the rules governing the single market for goods. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has recommended that parliament should support the proposal, with more than 150 amendments. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ since 1989, the placing of personal protective equipment (ppe) on the eu market has been fully harmonised by council directive 89/686/eec. during the 25 years of intervention, the directive has made possible a functioning single market. nevertheless, the existing ppe legislation needs to be updated in line with the new legislative framework, the package of measures to streamline and simplify the regulation of the single market for goods. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ in our work on the proposal for a regulation on personal protective equipment, our first objective was to propose amendments that would ensure that the current directive does not give rise to interpretations that undermine its effectiveness and legal certainty. the basic premise is that only truly effective means can ensure the safety of workers, taking into account that accidents at work are caused not only by the use of inappropriate personal protective equipment, but also, often, by its incorrect application. we also found that the effective effectiveness of the protective device can be ensured by developing and introducing products that are adapted to the needs of their end-users. therefore, it is emphasised that the wearer of the equipment should be taken into account and that the following categories of users should be distinguished: men, women, young workers and persons with disabilities. furthermore, we consider that certain aspects of the technical specifications of the regulation should be reviewed to cover all risk categories and probabilities in order to minimise the possibility of ambiguity and misinterpretation.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the regulation of the internal market in gas-fired equipment. directive 2009/142/ec currently lays down the essential requirements that gas-fired equipment must meet in order to be placed on the union market. the legislation should be updated in line with the new legislative framework, the package of measures to streamline and simplify the rules on the single market for goods. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has reported that parliament should support the proposal, albeit with more than 200 amendments. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur supports the proposal for a regulation on gas-fired equipment, which aims to replace directive 2009/142/ec. this directive is an example of union harmonisation legislation ensuring the free movement of gas-fired equipment. the directive has made a significant contribution to the establishment and functioning of the single market and harmonises the conditions for the marketing and/or putting into service of gas-fired equipment covered by it, taking into account the safety risks associated with gas and the rational use of energy. the union currently has 470 million gas-fired units and this number is increasing, with 30 million units sold annually. i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation on cableway installations, which is an example of eu harmonisation legislation. the proposal aims at harmonising the conditions for placing on the market of sub-assemblies and safety components to be incorporated into cableway installations and at ensuring the free movement of those products within the union. all safety components and sub-assemblies shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements laid down in this regulation. it also provides for the full harmonisation of the essential requirements to be met by cableway installations. this regulation repeals and replaces directive 2000/20/ec of 9 march 2000 on passenger rolling stock.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of the conditions of placing on the market of sub-assemblies and safety components for use in cableway installations and on the free movement of such products within the union. it replaces directive 2000/20/ec on passenger rolling stock. this regulation aligns the provisions on cableway installations with the package of goods adopted in 2008 and in particular with decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the placing of products on the market. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has reported that parliament should support the proposal with almost 150 amendments. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur supports the proposal for a regulation on cableway installations, which is an example of eu harmonisation legislation. the proposal aims at harmonising the conditions for placing on the market of sub-assemblies and safety components to be incorporated into cableway installations and at ensuring the free movement of those products within the union. all safety components and sub-assemblies shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements laid down in this regulation. it also provides for the full harmonisation of the essential requirements to be met by cableway installations. i supported the document.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with delegated regulation (eu) 2015/821 and article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i note that the verifying bodies of the relevant conventions have identified outstanding deficiencies in the relevant agreements of the gsp+ scheme and i consider that the above mentioned deficiencies represent a serious deficiency in the effective implementation of the relevant conventions listed in annex viii to the gsp regulation. in addition, i object to the commission delegated regulation of 25 november 2015 amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 on the application of the scheme of generalised tariff preferences (c(2013) 9133.
in writing. ‒ the gue/ngl group has tabled a motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 25 november 2015 amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. the proposal proposes to establish that the kyrgyz republic has serious deficiencies in a number of human rights issues and therefore does not fulfil the conditions set out in article 9 (1) of regulation (eu) no 978/2012 that applicant countries must fulfil in order to become beneficiaries of the gsp+ scheme. the proposal therefore proposes that the european parliament raise an objection to commission delegated regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of 25 november 2015 amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 on the application of the scheme of generalised tariff preferences c(2013) 9133 and thus that it should not enter into force. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i believe that further measures are needed to protect infants and young children from obesity and that the maximum permitted glucose levels should be significantly reduced in line with the who recommendations. the production of non-gmo products must be ensured in accordance with the hungarian basic law. i am convinced that in order to protect infants and young children, a general principle of zero tolerance for plant protection products should be applied. in the light of new scientific evidence on the health effects of active substances and their degradants, the regulation should be regularly updated towards increasingly stringent maximum residue levels.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the delegated regulation does not contain sufficient measures to protect infants and young children from obesity and that the maximum permitted blood sugar level should be significantly reduced in line with the who recommendations. in view of the particular endocrine vulnerability of infants and young children, a zero tolerance for plant protection products should be applied as a general principle. any derogation from the zero tolerance principle for plant protection products should be explicitly listed in annex iii, which should be updated regularly in the light of new scientific evidence on the health effects of active substances and their degradants, towards increasingly stringent maximum residue levels. in order to ensure transparency and to build public confidence in the union institutions and decision-making, the list of bilateral meetings (with the dates and participants) held by the commission with stakeholders during the process of drafting the delegated regulation should be made public.
in writing. ‒ a very important resolution has been adopted which rightly raises an objection to the commission's delegated regulation. our health, our illness, is largely based on what we feed our babies. lifelong allergic diseases and their complications can be blamed on the carelessness and profit-making interests of the food manufacturers. the commission's laxity on plant protection products and artificial sugars is unacceptable. it is important, in the interests of transparency and to avoid suspicion of corruption, to make public the list of bilateral meetings with dates and participants held by the commission with stakeholders during the process of drafting the delegated regulation. it is essential that every effort be made to promote the exclusive breastfeeding of infants during the first six months of life.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has presented a proposal for a resolution on delegated regulation (eu) no .../... of the european parliament and of the council of 25 september 2015 supplementing regulation (eu) no 609/2013 of the european parliament and of the council with regard to specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods. the proposal proposes to establish that the delegated regulation does not contain sufficient measures to protect infants and young children from obesity and does not meet the legitimate need to apply zero tolerance to plant protection products as a general principle, taking into account the particular vulnerability of the endocrine system of infants and young children, with all the derogations from this being listed in annex iii. it therefore proposes that the european parliament raise an objection to the delegated regulation and thus prevent its entry into force. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution rejecting the commission's draft regulation. in this context, i consider the recommendation of the world health organisation to limit the intake of free sugars to less than 10% of total energy intake to be important, and it also recommends a further 5% reduction for additional benefits. i agree that high sugar foods are increasingly contributing to childhood obesity and that they are also influencing the development of children's taste buds. i share the view that, especially in infants and young children, poor nutrition is the cause of most diseases. i support the commission's proposal to submit as soon as possible a new delegated act which takes into account the relevant findings of the european food safety authority. in addition, scientific evidence should be taken into account for optimal infant and young child feeding recommendations. i believe that all of these contribute to the development of a healthy diet, which ultimately has clear public health benefits.
in writing. ‒ the commission has not submitted a report to the parliament and the council on the nutrition of young children, as required by regulation (eu) no 609/2013, which is a necessary condition for national strategies to reduce childhood obesity. poor nutrition is now by far the leading cause of disease and death worldwide. who recommends that infants be exclusively breastfed for the first six months of life and that from the age of six months on, breast milk be supplemented with a variety of appropriate, safe and nutrient-rich complementary foods, but that no salt or sugars be added to the complementary foods. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ colombia may seem far away, but its internal armed conflict, which has lasted for more than 50 years, and its conclusion can serve as a lesson for regions closer to home. the actions of the opposing parties have caused immense suffering to the population. the conclusion of the conflict and the achievement of a firm and lasting peace in colombia are of fundamental importance not only for colombia but also for the european union and the international community, as indicated by the numerous statements of support for the peace process by various countries and regional and international organisations, including the european union. i therefore welcome the start of the process and will monitor its implementation.
in writing. ‒ a draft resolution on the colombian peace process was tabled by seven political groups, the ppe, ecr, alde, verts/ale, gue/ngl, s&d and efdd. the political groups have reached agreement on the draft, and i voted in favour of the compromise proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, which reflects the chances of a compromise between the opposing political parties in colombia and the efforts of the international community, in particular the european union, to achieve this. the agreement, which is due to be signed on 29 march, still needs to be clarified on a number of points and additional guarantees are needed to ensure the success of the referendum on its adoption. however, even in its present form, it contains what i consider to be essential and progressive elements, inter alia, with regard to limiting the role of the military, combating drug trafficking and measures to ensure the safety of the population. i also consider the commitment in the report and in the oral supplement by the high representative to continue to monitor and provide political and financial support to the process of internal political reconciliation in colombia after the entry into force of the agreement to be justified from the point of view of the eu's external relations and strengthening its global position.
in writing. ‒ ending the internal conflict that has lasted for more than 50 years and claimed millions of victims and achieving a solid and lasting peace in colombia is of fundamental importance not only for colombia but also for the european union and the international community, as indicated by the numerous statements of support for the peace process by various countries and regional and international organisations, including the european union. i supported the joint motion of my group.
the european parliament, at its meeting on 15 december, dealt in detail with the results of the paris climate conference. why did you have to bring this back on the agenda? apparently, to thank the parliament for minister fabius, who chaired the climate summit. the words of thanks are heard. that's fine, but it leaves some questions unanswered. how serious are the commitments? what happens if the united states in 2016 has a republican political majority who we know do not share the obama administration's commitment to climate change? what happens then? the second largest emitter. he signed the kyoto protocol, not ratified it. and another question: if the eu is funding developing countries for climate investments, does that mean that hungary, for example, as an eu member, is supporting china, which is the second largest economy in the world, with huge financial reserves? so there are still some unanswered questions.
it's a two-card draw. madam president, you are making a very serious personal commitment to this whole issue, and i appreciate that. however, do you not think that it would be better, or even more useful, to make use of institutional links? are you threatening to convene parliamentary assemblies, such as the nato parliamentary assembly, which could otherwise deal with this issue institutionally?
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you mentioned that russia is destabilizing the ukrainian and thus european processes. i ask you what you think of the - and i believe also destabilising - intentions that are manifested, for example, in referenda to annul these association agreements.
i'm not going to let you do this. i believe that your remarks would have been appropriate if president juncker had not made these remarks about mr juncker.
well, if you're curious, of course i can tell you. i think our congressman is just... are you listening to me? you just insulted the president of the european commission. i think it's inappropriate in the european parliament, and it's totally out of the question. you have no further comment. thank you, congressman, you don't have a chance, please take a seat. regardless of your shouting in this parliament and your inappropriate behaviour, i will not tolerate this behaviour. you can discuss it amongst yourselves, it's not relevant. the next member of the house, congressman martin. by the way, if you still want to shout, i suggest you do it outside the gym. that's the way it is.
officer, please. ukraine has come a long way from breaking with the post-soviet system and embarking on european-style reforms. this process is not yet complete and new opportunities for development have been opened up to ukraine with the association agreement with the european union and the entry into force of the free trade agreement on 1 january. this treaty will eliminate tariffs, provide access to a new market of 500 million, and boost the economy by expanding trade links. these opportunities should also be exploited at regional level, for example, it would be important to re-establish the transcarpathian free economic zone, which is successfully operating at the beginning of the 2000s, and the like. this would provide a framework for the involvement of foreign entrepreneurs and capital in the county, the deepening of relations between domestic and foreign enterprises, the economic integration of transcarpathia and its neighbouring countries and regions. this could create many new jobs, improving the economy, infrastructure and living standards of the population. the restoration of this special economic zone is therefore urgently needed, as the investments flowing there could be used to develop industry, modernise educational, cultural, tourist and sporting facilities, improve border crossings and improve the road network.
you're the most credible authority on the events in ukraine.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 21 january 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point (b) of article 2 (1) of the annex to decision no 1/2003/ec:
stabilisation and association agreements have already proven to be effective instruments of the european union's enlargement policy towards the western balkans. for the sake of stability and democratic development in the region, it is high time that kosovo also benefited from the opportunities for closer cooperation with the union, including the prospect of visa-free travel. i regret or regret that this process is still hampered by the fact that five eu member states still do not recognise the independent state of kosovo. perhaps the entry into force of this convention will be an opportunity for these member states to correct the situation which has been legally and politically overtaken. i am convinced that this would improve the political conditions for the accession process between pristina and belgrade and, indirectly, for serbia.
the question is, what can we do? the question is what can we do, and if we ask it, we have to answer it immediately. we have to start with reality, with reality, and the reality is that this is genocide. we have to learn to accept that. but it has to make you act. i - i'll tell you honestly - i'm tired of the fact that in the past period we have dealt with the issues of christians and other minorities more than ten times, we have pushed for various submissions, but the actions were not followed at all compared to the size of the problem. i therefore consider it very important, as i have seen in iraq, that the union should set an example by providing humanitarian aid to those who are persecuted. and i'll be honest with you, your honesty was very impressive. but what i ask the commission today is: how can we work better together for local solutions? what steps does the commission intend to take to preserve the remnants of a 2,000-year-old indigenous christian community? we're talking about remains, because more than a million people are missing. what are the strategic plans to stop the migration? we talk a lot about money, but we forget that representatives of the different churches, denominations, have no direct access to eu funds. every visit i've made to the area has confirmed that there is nothing else. european action based on facts is needed. we ask for the commission's involvement and partnership in this... (the president interrupted the member.)
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you mentioned two very important challenges, although i would like to ask you about a third. are you concerned that some governments are overreacting to the dangers and challenges? i can give you a specific example, the hungarian government, which is preparing to introduce a state of emergency. how do you really assess the fact that some governments are not necessarily using the right means and are thus also endangering the security and freedom of european citizens?
since the terrible attacks in paris, europe has been living under the threat of terror. fear is understandable, danger is not to be underestimated. but i have to say, even in this situation, we have to keep our heads. we must insist on the freedoms that are the foundation of liberal democracies. we must not give in to the extreme right-wing and populist parties that exploit people's fear in a vile way, inciting violence, fomenting fear and xenophobia. we must say that there is no terrorist threat that gives anyone the right to severely curb basic rights, civil rights. the fear of terrorism often leads us to adopt security measures which are contrary to the principles of liberal democracy, the pillars and the achievements of our own european culture. but that's what the terrorists want, that's what the populist, far-right politics want. to destroy the free world we've built over the last 60 years. we say that security is inseparable from respect for fundamental rights and freedom. so we have to be clear: more data, more mass surveillance, is not going to get us anywhere. we need much more effective and much more cooperative intelligence work than before, and above all a common european intelligence service. but that won't be enough! we must do everything we can to ensure that the second and third generations of immigrants do not become radicalised, but instead find their future here in european societies. education and training! acceptance and integration! a real chance to make it. these are the main tools in the fight against terrorism. it should be made clear that social integration does not mean forced cultural assimilation, but also that there is no alternative to integration. europe, freedom, the open society, we will always defend. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. i think it was very clear in the debate today, too, which of the members of parliament here is talking about terrorism, who is talking about threat, who is talking about prevention. and who are the ones who are using this opportunity to argue against islam, immigration, refugees and the koran. i think that kind of speech is not needed in this parliament. we should talk about facts, about problems, not about fear and xenophobia.
the report on the work of the committee on petitions is not in keeping with my personal experience and i turn to the representative of the european commission here. i'll ask him or her for an explanation, i don't see that he's wearing a headset, but he certainly speaks our language, hungarian. so you're obviously gonna follow my lead, 'cause that's why you're here. i'll show you and give you a half-a4-page document after my speech. this is a decision that was recently made by the petitions committee, almost a year after the hungarian foreign currency loan victims. so in a case involving almost 1 million hungarian and otherwise millions of european people who, as a result of the fraudulent behavior of banks and bankers, got into debt in foreign currency, swiss francs and other currencies. they filed a 15-page, very detailed petition written by lawyers, and they got this half-page response. i ask you, commissioner, - and i am speaking in our common language, in english - how is it compatible with the o) point, which states that every petition must be examined carefully, seriously, efficiently, quickly, transparently and individually, that a year later the committee on petitions has given a partial, primitive answer to this important question?
i voted against the kosovo association agreement because of the following reasons. the vote in favour would have been for the international community to achieve full autonomy for the serbs in kosovo. and i logically concluded that if this happened, then the hungarians in the territory of present-day serbia, in the south, would be able to achieve full autonomy, or national self-determination. but the reason i couldn't vote yes was that i was witnessing the flow of refugees from kosovo into southern hungary, complaining of poverty, complaining of corruption, complaining of total chaos in their country. now, it would be a miracle if six months ago or a year ago, this was the case, and now there are such paradisiacal conditions as described in this report, and on the basis of which a partnership agreement would be concluded.
in writing. ‒ the proposed stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with kosovo would be the last of the stabilisation and association agreements concluded with the western balkan countries. since 2000, the union has applied a preferential trade regime to kosovo, which provides it with duty-free and quota-free access to the union market, with the exception of certain agricultural and fishery products. the proposed saa sets out essentially the same set of rules: it provides unrestricted access for industrial products and most agricultural products (except live cattle and their meat, sugar products, certain wine products). as regards eu exports, i believe that transitional periods for kosovo for the gradual reduction of duties on industrial, agricultural, processed agricultural and fishery products and on wine and spirits will be essential for the smooth establishment of the planned 10-year free trade area, given that the eu's external trade surplus with kosovo is significant and has increased slightly over the last few years.
in writing. ‒ the proposed stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with kosovo would be the last of the stabilisation and association agreements concluded with the western balkan countries. since 2000, the union has applied a preferential trade regime to kosovo, which provides it with duty-free and quota-free access to the union market, with the exception of certain agricultural and fishery products. the proposed saa sets out a substantially identical set of rules: it provides unrestricted access for industrial products and most agricultural products (except live bovine animals and their meat, sugar products, certain wine products, baby beef products and certain fishery products). as regards exports to the union, i agree with the rapporteur that, for kosovo, transitional periods for the gradual reduction of duties on industrial, agricultural, processed agricultural and fishery products and on wine and spirits will be essential for the smooth establishment of the planned free trade area over a period of 10 years, given that the eu's external trade surplus with kosovo is significant and has increased slightly over the last few years.
in writing. ‒ the council has submitted a draft decision on the ratification of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo signed on 27 october 2015. the decision shall require the assent of the parliament. the agreement sets out rights and obligations and provides strong incentives for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. it will ensure increased political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it shall cover respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights and the establishment of various sectoral cooperation frameworks. it also contains provisions aimed at promoting european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, and at creating a free trade area. it will create opportunities for investment, growth and business development, while at the same time strengthening good governance through approximation to european standards and union law. the report of the committee on foreign affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to ratification of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the entry into force of the eu-republic of kosovo mfa. stabilisation and association agreements have already proven to be a proven and effective tool for the eu's enlargement policy in the western balkans. i believe that for the sake of stability and democratic development in the region, it is high time that kosovo also benefited from the opportunities for closer cooperation with the union, including the prospect of visa-free travel. i regret that - as the motion for a resolution indicates - this process is still hampered by the fact that five eu member states still do not recognise kosovo's statehood. i hope that the entry into force of the agreement will be an appropriate opportunity for these member states to correct this legally and politically outdated situation.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo was negotiated between october 2013 and may 2014 and initialled in july 2014. the council agreed to its signature on 22 october 2015. the eu's vice-president/high representative federica mogherini and commissioner johannes hahn, and the republic of kosovo's prime minister isa mustafa and minister for european integration bekim çollaku, signed the agreement in strasbourg on 27 october. he was also the first to be arrested in the so-called 'bushkapi region' in the early 1990s. the stabilisation and association agreement may enter into force following the completion of the current consensus procedure before the european parliament. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision to set up a committee of inquiry into emission measurement in the automotive sector to investigate allegations of breaches of eu law and abuses in its application, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national and eu courts. i welcome the fact that the committee of inquiry will be tasked with requiring the commission to monitor the measurement cycles used to measure emissions and, if the tests no longer prove adequate or do not reflect real emissions, to adjust them in such a way that they credibly reflect emissions generated by real road driving.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into the so-called volkswagen scandal. the committee is to present an interim report in six months and a final report in one year. i will be involved in the work myself, as the only hungarian leftist i will help the process. investigation of alleged infringements and backsliding in relation to emission measurement tests. do you need to analyse the production, repair and maintenance phases of euro 5 and 6 engines, to have a complete picture of whether the transparency and necessary correction of the test processes can be ensured? the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the market and to take appropriate measures to ensure that they are implemented. i personally think it is important to clarify the issue from the climate and health aspects, but i also think we should not forget about the protection of workers. each of these alleged or actual scandals puts hundreds of thousands of jobs at risk, in this case directly in our country! the process may therefore also affect hungary, it may affect jobs in hungary, because these measurement protocols and procedures are carried out according to the same principles in all production units! each technological solution is no longer a secret tool, and each innovation is quickly adopted by other brands. i think the scandal could also provide a basis for companies to invest more resources in the development of electric cars, for example.
in writing. ‒ 283 meps had previously submitted a request calling for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches of eu law and alleged maladministration in relation to emission measurement in the automotive industry. i supported the process and the proposal.
i am a hungarian man, a hungarian member of the european parliament. so when i have to vote on the ukrainian association agreement, i want to first of all assess the human rights of the hungarian people living in the territory of present-day ukraine. the word national self-determination, autonomy, cannot even be said about transcarpathian hungarians. contrary to what we said about kosovo and the serbs living there. in fact, the european union itself, in all its relevant human rights documents, points out that the right to national self-determination is a fundamental, collective human right. if someone says that in the present ukraine, that maybe the hungarians have the right to self-determination, the right to autonomy, rusyn or... otherwise it causes some kind of shock reaction, they punish the person. he was also responsible for the repression of the 'people's republic of donetsk' and the 'donetsk people's republic'. so they don't respect freedom of speech and national self-determination. under the circumstances, i voted against the partnership agreement.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with georgia, moldova and ukraine is essentially a free trade agreement, which lists in hundreds of pages the quantities of products each country can import into the union duty-free. but the point is not that, but the geopolitical significance of the treaty, i.e. the withdrawal of these countries from the eurasian economic area initiated by russia. the eu is also well aware that the preconditions of the agreement (including the rule of law) are not met in these countries. this agreement will bring about an even greater economic crisis for the countries concerned than the current one, because they will be cut off from the area where their industries are competitive (the russian market). i have already said that i rejected the motion for a resolution calling for the conclusion of contracts for two reasons. on the one hand, i do not agree with the aggressive expansion of nato and the eu to the east, because it is not good for us or for the countries in the eastern half of europe. moreover, the situation created by the treaty and the russian response to it will cause economic disaster in ukraine, if the current chaos is to be exacerbated.
in writing. ‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine have come a long way in breaking with the post-soviet system and embarking on democratic reforms with a european spirit. this process is not yet complete, and the association agreement with the european union and the free trade agreement have opened up new opportunities for development and european convergence. these three countries have declared their intention to become more closely integrated politically and economically with the european union by starting to implement the reforms required by the eu and the treaties, despite constant political and economic pressure from russia, but still have much to do to become a democratic welfare state that respects human rights and international law. i welcome the progress made so far and voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ the eu has a priority to the security, stability and economic prosperity of the countries of eastern europe and the south caucasus, and to the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law in these countries. in june 2008, the european council invited the commission to develop a proposal for an eastern partnership with the aim of promoting regional cooperation and strengthening relations between the eu and its eastern neighbours. i welcome the eu's commitment to develop close, differentiated and mutually beneficial cooperation with all six countries in the framework of the eastern partnership, regardless of the motivations of each country in its relations with the eu.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution on the subject was tabled by six political groups: verts/ale, ppe, alde, ecr, s&d and gue/ngl. with the exception of gue/ngl, the other five political groups reached agreement on the content of the resolution. i voted in favour of the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, given the experience that association agreements are a proven tool of the eu's neighbourhood and enlargement policy, providing important motivation and guidance for the partner countries concerned on the path towards building a democratic european rule of law. all three partner countries have made significant progress in meeting the expectations and measures set out in the agreement. of the three, i personally, as first vice-chair of the eu-ukraine parliamentary association committee, had particular regard to ukraine when considering the decision. for our largest eastern neighbour, attachment to the eu is also an important bulwark against russia's violent expansionist tendencies. i share the concerns expressed in the resolution about the dutch referendum which threatens the entry into force of the ukraine association agreement, which in itself could demotivate ukrainians, undermine the credibility of our common foreign and security policy and eastern partnership policy, and have serious consequences for the interests of ukraine, the netherlands and the european union as a whole if it goes wrong. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be involved in the negotiations on the association agreement with ukraine, which is a key element in the eu's efforts to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict.
in writing. ‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine are eastern partnership countries that have opted for close political cooperation and economic integration with the european union. i voted in favour of the s&d group's proposal.
there have been some very interesting reports and motions from various parties on the mutual defence clause. i really liked that there were a few people who were really speaking out about counterterrorism. for example, the efdd states that the recent terrorist attacks in the eu have exposed the lack of information exchange and the serious shortcomings in the cooperation and coordination of european intelligence services. the greens have also pointed to problems of arms trafficking and the financing of terrorism. finally, these draft reports, or draft resolutions, are starting to speak for themselves. and it's not about, or not trying to force, the intelligence services, large groups of citizens who have nothing to do with terrorism, to watch, to listen, etc. this is not the answer to the threat of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the union should strengthen its cooperation with the north atlantic treaty organisation (nato) in order to make the security and defence policies developed between the two systems increasingly compatible, especially in the event of an armed attack on a member state's territory, including terrorist attacks; i am also convinced that the eu institutions should play a more active role in the field of security and defence policy and promote the implementation of the provisions of the treaties on security and defence policy, including the specific role of nato in european and transatlantic security and defence; as the eu institutions should support member states in their efforts to fully implement these provisions.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution on the mutual defence clause was tabled by seven groups: ppe, verts/ale, s&d, gue/ngl, alde, ecr and efdd. among them, the ppe, s&d and alde reached agreement on the content of the resolution. i voted in favour of the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the resolution, basically agreeing with the positive but critical approach of the report. following the application, for the first time, of the mutual defence clause under article 42 (7) teu following the terrorist attacks in france, at the request of the french government, a number of valuable practical experiences and lessons have been learnt in relation to this important instrument of eu solidarity. on this basis, i myself agree that, despite the generally encouraging experience, the legal framework for mutual assistance between member states in a situation of defence needs to be further adjusted and clarified in order to avoid ad hoc solutions such as those which have been proposed. i think it is important that the report specifically emphasises that this work should be in line with the renewal of the cfsp and that the policy debate on this should take place as soon as possible in the european parliament and council forums.
in writing. ‒ on 13 november 2015, a series of terrorist attacks took place in paris, killing at least 130 people from more than 26 different countries. the fight against international terrorism is a priority objective of the union and the application of the principle of solidarity requires both domestic and foreign action in accordance with international law. the internal and external dimensions of eu security are necessarily and closely interlinked. i voted in favour of the s&d group's proposal.
i could not vote for the motions for resolutions on the priorities of the un on human rights issues because i found it terribly hypocritical that all the motions for resolutions stressed that it would be very important in the external countries - that is, in the countries outside the eu - to treat civil and political freedoms and social and economic rights in the same way, inseparably. i completely agree with that, of course, but i've been sitting here for six and a half years in this otherwise empty room, listening to my own country, hungary, and more recently poland, being marginalized for alleged violations of political rights and freedoms. but no one ever asked how it is that in hungary or poland a nurse, a fireman, a teacher earns a fifth of what they earn in western countries. no one asked why labor rights were so childish, why there were no strong unions. when you're doing this here, you're gonna have to ask other people to do it.
in writing. ‒ respect for, promotion and protection of the universality of human rights is an important part of the european union's ethical and legal acquis and a cornerstone of european unity and integrity. the union's action in relation to third countries is guided by article 21 of the treaty of lisbon, which affirms the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and provides for respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and the principles enshrined in the charter of the united nations and international law; furthermore, respect for human rights should be applied in all policy areas affecting peace and security, development cooperation, trade and investment, humanitarian aid, climate change and the fight against terrorism, as these problems cannot be addressed in isolation from respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution on the subject was tabled by seven political groups: ppe, alde, gue/ngl, verts/ale, efdd, ecr and s&d. among them, the ppe, alde, verts/ale, efdd and s&d reached agreement on the content of the resolution. i voted in favour of the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, agreeing with the report's priorities reflecting the indivisible and universal nature of human rights , which guide the european union's representatives in their work at the un human rights council this year. the detailed resolution addresses the protection of human and civil rights in the traditional sense, but also addresses women, children and other groups particularly vulnerable to violations, as well as economic and environmental aspects. for my part, i particularly welcome the emphasis on the two most pressing challenges facing the eu and the international community today, the refugee crisis and terrorism, and their many human rights implications. in considering this issue, i have taken into account the regrettable fact that the european union, in its present political state, is ill-suited to the role of global guiding and norm-setting that it has traditionally played in the promotion and protection of universal human rights, owing to the behaviour of certain member states. thus, the government of my own country has made the inhumane treatment of refugees, the discrimination and oppression of our own minorities and the poor, or the severe restrictions on the basic human and civil rights of the population on the pretext of the threat of terrorism, an integral part of its policy. i hope that this guiding decision of the ep will also contribute to the eradication of such practices by member states and thus to the restoration of the political and moral credibility of the eu.
in writing. ‒ every state has a duty to ensure respect for human rights, irrespective of race, origin, gender or colour; reiterating its commitment to the indivisibility of human rights whether civil, economic, social or cultural which are interdependent. it is the duty of every state to respect the fundamental rights of its people and to take concrete measures to promote these rights at the national level, and to cooperate at the international level to remove obstacles to the realization of human rights in all fields. i supported the s&d position on the priorities.
i was present at the debate on the report of the committee on petitions. i spoke there, and i told them that they had closed the case of the hungarian foreign currency creditors with a half-page, extremely primitive document, which was a 15-page, thoroughly written petition, selected by lawyers. i've been a lawyer for 30 years, and i'm convinced that if the janitor had been given that 15-page petition to review, he would have written a much more sophisticated, much higher quality response than the commissioner of the committee on petitions. i have seen a new side of the european union, a dark side of humour, in this report, where it says in point (d) that petitioners are generally citizens committed to improving the situation of our societies and to their future well-being. the way in which citizens experience the handling of their petitions can be decisive in shaping their views on european integration. well, they are right in this particular, they are appalled by the work of the committee on petitions and they are appalled by the whole of the european union more and more.
in writing. ‒ in line with the rapporteur, i believe it is important that the commission proactively monitors the development of planned and published projects which, on the basis of substantiated evidence, are likely to infringe eu law and takes timely preventive measures in such cases.
in writing. ‒ the committee on petitions is a key tool for citizens to participate in the european democratic process, facilitating debate, informing european citizens of their rights and helping them to exercise them. the 2014 report provides an overview of the work of the committee on petitions, statistics on the number of petitions received by the committee on petitions closed (70,9%) or still pending (28,1%) , the countries concerned and the topics covered in the petitions. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, 2714 petitions were received, a decrease of 6% compared to 2013. this is almost twice the number of petitions received in 2009. the number of civil servants dealing with petitions has not increased proportionally. i supported the report.
although i am one of the so-called eu-sceptics or eu-realists, as a criminal lawyer i am very pleased that when a citizen of a european country is arrested and prosecuted in a third country, perhaps a far, far away country, the european union also gives him protection, not just its own consular protection. i would like to draw the attention of my fellow hungarian citizens or compatriots to this. at the same time, i have to argue with mr deva that we could set an example for india that pre-trial detention should be used in all eu countries as intended. now, for example, i have a fellow hungarian citizen, istván beke, who has been detained with a colleague for three months in romania for obviously political reasons, without any evidence being produced against him by the authorities during this time. or you can't keep in touch with your relatives, because they use pre-trial detention as a form of preventive punishment. so we have to improve within the eu! (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. i agree with my colleague, mr deva. it's intolerable that people are kept in pretrial detention for two years. there's plenty of charges to be filed in that time. the principle of the habeas corpus is very important. i was just saying, and i regret saying it, that there are countries within the european union and there are people of law, when we see that for two years or more, european citizens are in pre-trial detention, which i find outrageous and i feel that something must be done about it. and i feel, and i think, that we agree on that. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. i am aware that the charge is preparation for an act of terrorism. and it makes it even more outrageous that these people have been in pre-trial detention for three months on such serious charges without the romanian authorities producing any evidence during this time. second point: no matter how serious the charge against you is, you have the right to contact your relatives in europe. considering that pre-trial detention is not considered as a pre-trial, anticipatory punishment.
mr president, what you are doing is an absolute breach of the rules, and i wonder: we are about 40-45 people out of the 751 deputies here this afternoon. could you please enlighten me, mr president, why those of us who take the effort to stay here are not allowed to speak under the catch-the-eye procedure? if, for whatever reason, you decide not to give us the floor, do you not think that it would be a minimum level of collegiality to tell us in advance of the procedure and how you decide to give us the floor or not? what is your principle on that?
mr president i wish you a speedy recovery. and now i turn to the representative of the commission here. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by terrorists. i would ask the commissioner to remind me, if i am not mistaken, that many former communist countries are represented here in the european union. i do not recall that either during the accession negotiations which immediately followed the so-called regime change or since then, the european union has called on these countries or the associated countries to bring to justice and to punish severely the communist criminals, at least the perpetrators of the most heinous communist crimes, who were still in large numbers at that time. am i remembering right or wrong? is there some kind of double standard?
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you mentioned the relatively low incidence of green aspects. but in the case of a trade agreement, and in particular a trade agreement on services, what aspects would you like to see in particular?
in writing.– tisa must be transparent. that is the starting point. i am seriously concerned that the negotiations have been conducted so far without the required level of transparency while it appears that all negotiation documents will be officially published only five years after negotiations have been concluded. overall, transparency cannot consist of the mere provision of information. we need to call on the commission to involve parliament in real consultation and at all stages of the negotiations. secondly, public services must not be put under pressure for further privatisation or deregulation and thus should not be part of tisa. in any event tisa must not result in an opening of service sectors to foreign suppliers at the cost of high european labour, environmental and consumer standards. wages and conditions for any posted workers must at least comply with those applying to nationals at the same workplace. they must not be treated differently under the guise of being described as ‘service providers’. finally, there must be no further deregulation of the financial markets through tisa. reforms of financial markets whose necessity became apparent in the aftermath of the international financial crisis must not be treated as trade barriers.
thank you very much, madam president, for this opportunity, although i'm not sure i got the signal because of the interpretation, but thank you again for the opportunity. i think that this debate today has convinced all of us that although we think the relevant provisions, the legal background is good, we see the errors in the implementation. i think we should point first and foremost to the governments of the member states. they are the ones who always find some economic interest that turns them away from the task of conservation. i think that we need to change our attitude, that we need to condemn the abuse of nature as much as we condemn the abuse of human rights, whether in economic or other ways.
in writing. biodiversity ensures the maintenance and renewal of resources without which soil formation, nutrient and water cycles would not be possible. the loss of biodiversity is a loss for nature and for the economy. we have not done enough to preserve the biodiversity that is the foundation of our existence. the european commission's mid-term assessment shows that more than three quarters of the eu's important natural habitats are in poor condition and several species are threatened with extinction. the amendment i tabled with my austrian colleague elisabeth köstinger was supported by a large majority in the committee on the environment. in order to avoid negative impacts on biodiversity, the precautionary principle should be fully applied when gmos are authorised in the union. pest resistant gm crops make it impossible to apply integrated pest management, which means that we only intervene when the presence of pests justifies it. to protect biodiversity, we can never completely eradicate the pest population, we can only reduce it to a certain level. it is also of serious concern that co-cropping of genetically modified and conventional crops may never be fully feasible in practice. gm crops can contaminate areas under organic cultivation. finally, i would point out that due to their typical large-scale, monoculture farming methods, gmos pose a food safety risk in the countries and regions that receive such crops.
madam president, it appears that a few hundred terrorists have managed to paralyse the european union by creating fear and dissension among its member states. this fear has intensified disunity between european governments, many of which are now seriously repressing the rights and freedoms of citizens. they are doing this on the ground as if this were the most efficient way to fight terrorism. they could not be more wrong. disintegration is clearly not an adequate way to lower the terror threat in europe. however, it is a great tool to concentrate too much uncontrolled power in the hands of certain governments. the hungarian government knows this well, as it has recently proposed a so-called constitutional amendment to introduce the notion of a state of terrorist threat. the proposal would allow prime minister orbán to rule without control by decree for 60 days, or even more, but avoids giving a definition of ‘terrorist threat’, leaving it to the government to identify.
the definition of ten-t transport corridors has significantly improved and streamlined the development, planning and financing of trans-european infrastructure. the negotiations in vienna last summer resulted in the establishment of ten-t corridors not only for the eu member states but also for the western balkan candidate countries, extending the three existing ten-t lines and finally mapping the entire continent. however, in order to achieve a uniform positive transport and economic impact along the entire length of the corridor and to create the so-called 'corridor effect', it is necessary to rethink the funding mechanisms provided by the eu. the eu's external relations are very different for member and candidate countries, so that, despite all goodwill, the gaps remain. i ask the commission to create the right legal and financial framework for the ten-t corridors to be reviewed in order to ensure that the corridor effect is successfully realised.
it's a two-card draw. - madam deputy! if i understood your speech correctly, you emphasized cooperation rather than binding rules. some therefore believe that cooperation could be greatly helped by the introduction of a european minimum wage based on a single principle and covering all countries. would you be for or against that?
i think we can all say that the package of measures proposed by the commission is, on the whole, moving in the right direction and i would like to congratulate the commission officials on this. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the taxation of companies in the member states. and i think we've been quite successful in implementing this principle, and it's certainly helped a lot with transparency. however, the formulation or definition of tax havens, the definition of tax havens, and the problems of intellectual property rights are not part of this package now, and i would like to see them later. finally, we cannot talk about european competitiveness as long as multinational companies pay 30 times as much tax as multinational companies, or we could say that small and mediumsized enterprises pay 30 times as much tax as multinational companies. i believe that the title of european taxpayer should only be given to those who pay at least as much tax as small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims at codifying regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 march 2006 establishing a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code). the new regulation replaces the acts contained therein. this proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in their entirety and merely summarises them, making only the formal amendments necessary for the consolidation to take place. as there is no substantive change in the existing schengen rules and we have a strong interest from the hungarian point of view in the trans-accessibility of internal borders (for migrant workers, the abolition of internal hungarian borders towards slovakia and slovenia) and the principle of the possibility of temporarily reintroducing internal border controls is included in the regulation, i therefore supported the adoption of the recodified schengen regulation.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the ongoing migration and refugee crisis, i consider the need to protect the external borders of the european union and the enforceability of the rules on them to be of paramount importance. the current consolidated text is a step forward in this area and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question contains a simple consolidated version of the existing texts without substantial amendments, and i therefore accept its position at first reading, agreeing with the commission's proposal as amended in accordance with the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. i also instruct the president, in agreement with the rapporteur, to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission and to the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation submitted by the european commission, in the opinion of the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, contains a simple consolidation of the existing texts without any substantial changes. the committee on legal affairs therefore recommended in its report to parliament that it adopt the draft with the amendments proposed by the advisory working party. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the schengen system is one of the european union's most important achievements, with a great deal of practical benefit and symbolic value. in order to ensure that the system is sustainable in the face of large numbers of asylum seekers and the threat of terrorism, it is necessary to clarify the rules of the system. the parliament's position is that the development of the system should not affect the most important benefits of schengen, and i support that.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the decision, given that the commission's proposal, which was supported in the interinstitutional committee discussions, is intended to maintain the functionality of the schengen system and to adapt it to practical requirements. while the proposed amendments are essentially of a legal and technical nature, they are based on the recognition that the implementation of the schengen acquis governing the movement of persons across borders has demonstrated the need to strengthen the role of community, union regulation and enforcement as opposed to implementation at the level of individual member states. as a member who attaches great importance to the interoperability of european borders, i will continue to support similar corrective efforts to strengthen the community method in future in the ep's proceedings.
in writing. ‒ the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considered that the proposal in question contained a simple consolidation of the existing texts without substantial amendments, and i therefore agreed with the s&d group's position and supported the legal act.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. several studies have shown that air pollutants travel thousands of miles before they settle. therefore, the problems caused by air pollution must be addressed at international level. the un economic commission for europe signed the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution in 1979, which aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. this treaty has been supplemented by several protocols over time, the current one being an amendment to the 1998 protocol. the proposal amends the protocol on heavy metals discharged into air by tightening the limit values. the reasoning attached to the file shows that the existing eu standards contain most of these limit values. the new rules will be incorporated into eu law by means of a directive. on that basis, i voted yes to the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. between 1972 and 1977, several studies showed that air pollutants travel thousands of miles before they settle. therefore, the problems caused by air pollution must be addressed at international level. the convention, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first international instrument with binding legal force in this field.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, established a framework for monitoring and reducing the adverse effects of transboundary air pollution on human health and the environment. one of the two aarhus protocols of 1998 supplementing the convention aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the air. the accession of the community to the protocol was approved by council decision 2001/379/ec of 4 april 2001. the protocol entered into force on 29 december 2003. the protocol was amended by three decisions of the parties in december 2012. decision 2012/5, which provides for stricter limit values for dust emissions from these significant fixed sources and introduces transitional measures in favour of parties acceding to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, should be ratified by the parties. the draft decision submitted by the council suggests that this should be done. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in its report, finds that the amendment is fully in line with the union legislation in force and therefore recommends that parliament add its consent to the draft decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the ratification of the amendments to the recommendation represents a significant step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. the explanatory memorandum refers to several studies (between 1972 and 1977) showing that air pollutants travel thousands of kilometres before they are deposited. i agree that the problems caused by air pollution must be addressed at international level. a binding international instrument in the form of a convention came into force in 1983, establishing a framework for monitoring and reducing harmful effects. the 1998 additional protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the air. it requires the parties to reduce their annual cumulative emissions below 1990 levels. the aim of the protocol is to reduce emissions from industrial sources (iron, steel and non-ferrous metals), combustion processes (energy production, road transport) and waste incineration. the protocol sets limits and requires the use of best available techniques. the parties shall establish and maintain an emission inventory of lead, cadmium and mercury emissions, eliminate the use of leaded petrol and reduce the amount of mercury in alkaline cells. the amendments are fully in line with the existing eu legislation and i therefore supported the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. between 1972 and 1977, several studies showed that air pollutants travel thousands of miles before they settle. the convention, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first international instrument in this field to have binding legal force. the convention has been supplemented by eight protocols to date, which set out specific measures to be taken by the parties to reduce emissions of air pollutants. in particular, the amended protocol provides for stricter limits than before for emissions from significant localized sources and introduces transitional measures that favour parties joining the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe. i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ i think it is important to draw attention to the report, since the convention in question has been supplemented by eight protocols to date, which set out specific measures to be taken by the parties to reduce emissions of air pollutants. the first protocol to the convention was signed in 1984 and provided for a financing system for activities under the emep. the second protocol on sulphur emissions was the first major measure to reduce air pollution. the third, fourth and fifth protocols dealt with nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and again sulphur emissions and their transboundary flows. the 1991 protocol on volatile organic compounds moved towards a more efficient group approach to the regulation of individual substances. this continued under the two 1998 protocols on heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants. the eighth protocol on action against acidification, eutrophication and ozone depletion is the first multi-pollutant, multi-effect protocol and contains specific national emission limit values and emission reduction commitments for different substances.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the second aarhus protocol of 1998 supplementing the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, referred to in paragraph 2, is to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants into the environment. the accession of the community to the protocol was approved by council decision 2004/259/ec of 19 february 2004. the protocol entered into force on 23 october 2003. the protocol was amended by four decisions of the parties in december 2012. among these, decision 2012/1, which includes seven new substances, updates the implementation requirements for a number of substances, updates the restrictions for dioxins/furans from multiple sources and extends the range of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations to include polychlorinated biphenyls, is subject to ratification by the parties. the draft decision submitted by the council suggests that this should be done. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in its report, finds that the amendment is fully in line with the union legislation in force and therefore recommends that parliament add its consent to the draft decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation as the ratification of the amendments will be a significant step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution and is fully in line with existing eu legislation. it is worth noting that between 1972 and 1977, several studies showed that air pollutants travel thousands of miles before they settle. therefore, the problems caused by air pollution must be addressed at international level. the convention, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first international legally binding instrument in this field, establishing a framework for monitoring and reducing harmful effects. the 1998 protocol also aims to control, reduce or eliminate the release, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants (pops). the latter requires parties to restrict the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorodiphenylcyclohexanes (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) and to reduce their total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdf) and hexachlorobenzene (hcb) compared to 1990 levels. i agree with the reasoning in the recommendation that the special exemptions for economies in transition and flexible transition schedules allow parties to comply with the protocol.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. between 1972 and 1977, several studies showed that air pollutants travel thousands of miles before they settle. therefore, the problems caused by air pollution must be addressed at international level. the current amendments are fully in line with the existing union legislation. the special exemptions and flexible transition schedules for economies in transition allow parties to comply with the protocol. the ratification of the amendments will be a significant step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine aimed at enhancing judicial cooperation in the field of serious crime, in particular the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement shall contain provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine. in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and enhance judicial cooperation within europe, there is a clear need for eurojust to cooperate with ukraine from a practical point of view. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we approve the conclusion of the operational cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. this agreement has the objective of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, through the exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. ‒ this proposal relates to the proposal for the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine aimed at enhancing judicial cooperation in the field of serious crime, in particular the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer delegated by ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. i welcome the initiative because i believe that there is a clear need for eurojust to cooperate with ukraine from an operational point of view in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and to enhance judicial cooperation within europe.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted a draft implementing decision approving the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the aim of the agreement is to enhance judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement was approved by the joint monitoring body of eurojust. the council shall consult parliament on the draft. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in its report notes that there is a clear need for cooperation between eurojust and ukraine from an operational point of view in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and enhance judicial cooperation within europe and therefore recommends that parliament approve the council's draft. i supported the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's approval of the agreement allowing for closer operational cooperation between eurojust and the ukrainian authorities, in the belief that this represents a major pan-european interest, especially in terms of fighting cross-border organised crime. the intensive exchange of information envisaged in the agreement and the deployment of a ukrainian liaison officer to eurojust can serve this purpose. as vice-chair of the ep's association committee on ukraine, i particularly welcomed the fact that the agreement was partly based on legislative and administrative changes in the area of justice and data protection introduced by the ukrainian government, following eurojust's proposals. i am convinced that this agreement and the cooperation it will develop will be an important contribution to our joint efforts to democratize ukraine and to work closely with the eu.
in writing. ‒ this proposal relates to the proposal for the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine aimed at enhancing judicial cooperation in the field of serious crime, in particular the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer delegated by ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro aimed at enhancing judicial cooperation in the field of serious crime, in particular the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the appointment of a liaison prosecutor delegated by montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. eurojust shall assist in resolving conflicts of jurisdiction where more than one member state is in a position to pursue criminal proceedings in a given case. it facilitates the execution of international judicial measures such as the european arrest warrant. it shall provide funding for the establishment and operational needs of the joint investigation teams. the rapporteur considers that cooperation with eurojust montenegro is clearly necessary from an operational point of view in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and to enhance judicial cooperation within europe. this is indeed necessary, as montenegro has a strong base of organised crime.
in writing. ‒ in order to strengthen the fight against crossborder crime and enhance judicial cooperation within europe, there is a clear need for cooperation between eurojust and montenegro from a practical point of view. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we approve the conclusion of the operational cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. this agreement has the objective of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, through the exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. ‒ there is a clear need for cooperation between eurojust and montenegro from an operational point of view in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and to enhance judicial cooperation within europe. the report concerns a proposal for the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro aimed at enhancing judicial cooperation in the field of serious crime, in particular the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the appointment of a liaison prosecutor delegated by montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted a draft implementing decision approving the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the aim of the agreement is to enhance judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the joint supervisory body of eurojust approved the draft agreement, finding, inter alia, that the provisions of the draft agreement concerning the exchange of personal data were adequate. the council shall consult parliament on the draft. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs concludes that there is a clear need for cooperation between eurojust and montenegro from an operational point of view in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and to enhance judicial cooperation within europe, and therefore recommends that parliament approve the council's draft. i supported the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's approval of the agreement allowing for closer operational cooperation between eurojust and the montenegrin authorities, in the belief that this represents a major pan-european interest, particularly in terms of fighting cross-border organised crime and international terrorism. in considering this question, i have kept in mind the important role montenegro has to play in stabilising the western balkans and, more recently, in managing the wave of migration towards europe. the intensive exchange of information envisaged in the agreement and the deployment of a liaison prosecutor in montenegro alongside eurojust can also serve this purpose. i am also convinced that this agreement and the cooperation that will develop on its basis will be an important contribution to the process of democratisation and eu accession in montenegro and thus to our joint efforts in the framework of the european union's enlargement policy.
in writing. ‒ this proposal relates to the proposal for the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro aimed at enhancing judicial cooperation in the field of serious crime, in particular the fight against organised crime and terrorism. there is a clear need for cooperation between eurojust and montenegro from an operational point of view in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and enhance judicial cooperation within europe. i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request on the grounds that on 13 august 2015 the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament the request of the polish high traffic police for authorisation to bring proceedings against robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament, in connection with an infringement of the speed limit. according to the polish highway traffic police, at 12.34 on 7 september 2014 in the town of szklary, while driving an opel passenger car with registration number dw404na, robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz did not respect the speed limit of 50 km/h applicable to the respective inhabited area, but drove the aforementioned vehicle at 79 km/h, exceeding the speed limit by 29 km/h.
in writing. ‒ the polish high traffic police want to initiate a criminal case against robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament, for allegedly exceeding the speed limit for the residential area in question by car on 7 september 2014 at 12:34 in the town of szklary. on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the president of the european parliament for authorisation to open the olaf criminal proceedings. in its report, the committee on legal affairs concludes that the alleged infringement is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz and that there are no serious and well-founded grounds for suspecting that the request was made with the aim of causing political damage to the member, and therefore proposes that the parliament suspend the member's immunity in the context of the present case. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament the request of the polish high traffic police to authorise the prosecution of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament, in connection with a speeding offence. iwaszkiewicz admitted that he was driving the car at the time. i followed the s&d group's position on the matter and supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request on the grounds that on 13 august 2015 the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament the request of the polish high traffic police for authorisation to bring proceedings against robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament, in connection with an infringement of the speed limit. according to the polish highway traffic police, at 12.34 on 7 september 2014 in the town of szklary, while driving an opel passenger car with registration number dw404na, robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz did not respect the speed limit of 50 km/h applicable to the respective inhabited area, but drove the aforementioned vehicle at 79 km/h, exceeding the speed limit by 29 km/h.
in writing. ‒ the polish high traffic police want to initiate a criminal case against robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament, for allegedly exceeding the speed limit for the residential area in question by car on 21 august 2014 at 23.46 in the town of rawicz. on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the president of the european parliament for authorisation to open the olaf criminal proceedings. in its report, the committee on legal affairs concludes that the alleged infringement is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz and does not constitute a vote or opinion cast in the exercise of the duties of member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. furthermore, there is no serious and well-founded suspicion that the request was made with the aim of causing political damage to the member and it therefore proposes that parliament suspend the member's immunity in this case. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament the request of the polish high traffic police to authorise the prosecution of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament, in connection with a speeding offence. according to the polish highway traffic police, the photograph of the trafipax clearly shows the face of the person driving the vehicle at the time of the infringement, robert iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament. i followed the s&d group's position on the matter and supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ in the case of a member of the european parliament, immunity from liability applies not only to the views expressed by the member in official sessions of parliament but also to those expressed elsewhere, for example in the media, where there is a link between the views expressed and parliament's tasks. thus, when meps express their views on the foreign policy of the european union and third countries in public, it is within their mandate. for these reasons, it decides not to suspend the immunity of florian philippot.
in writing. ‒ the government of qatar has brought proceedings before the court of nanterre against florian philippot, member of the french european parliament, accusing him of slandering the aforementioned state in a radio broadcast of 9 january 2015 and a television broadcast of 19 january 2015, by suggesting that this state finances terrorism. on 2 september 2015, the minister of justice of the french republic sent a request to the european parliament to suspend the immunity of mr philippot in the context of the ongoing procedure. in its report, the committee on legal affairs states that both article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and article 26 of the french constitution prohibit civil or criminal proceedings against a member for an opinion expressed in the performance of his duties and that it is within the competence of members of the european parliament to express publicly an opinion on the foreign policy of the european union and of third states. it also notes that the immunity of a member of the european parliament does not only apply to the opinions expressed by that member in official sessions of parliament, but also to those expressed elsewhere, for example in the media, in so far as there is a link between the opinions expressed and the tasks of parliament. in view of the above, it recommends that parliament not suspend florian philippot's immunity. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ florian philippot is accused by a third state, namely the government of qatar, of having slandered the aforementioned state in a radio broadcast of 9 january 2015 and a television broadcast of 19 january 2015, suggesting that this state finances terrorism. i followed the s&d group's position on the matter and supported the motion.
i'm speaking up because i want to confirm that what we just voted on is a matter of particular importance. it affects millions of workers in europe and in many countries, and unfortunately in my country, hungary, it is a typical situation. if you look around, in almost every sector, you find tens of thousands of workers who are not being reported correctly. so their own social security, the revenue from the state budget, the revenue from social security, the competitiveness neutrality in these sectors is all affected. but i am actually speaking to show that there should be a common platform for national responsibility - beyond national government policies supporting such tax avoidance behaviour - in europe, where member states consult with the eu institutions and organisations representing social dialogue. that's why i supported today's motion.
in writing. ‒ at the beginning of its current mandate, the european parliament committed itself to tackling one of the most disturbing and complex socioeconomic problems, undeclared work. the complexity of the challenge stems from the nature of the problem, namely that these are paid activities which are legal in nature but remain hidden from the relevant public authorities. this is a form of tax evasion that increases the size of the black economy, violates the principle of shared responsibility, and places a disproportionate burden on those doing honest, declared work and thus on taxpayers. implementation should be coupled with proactive policies and measures of an incentive nature aimed at regularising the remaining undeclared jobs. such measures may include income tax rebates, tax reductions and the introduction of support schemes. the fact that the practice of undeclared work in the member states is not decreasing shows that there is a demand for these jobs, as well as a supply. in a strong, work-based and wage-based society, which promotes national interests, undeclared work and its various forms cannot be tolerated. the ep's proposal will strengthen and make more effective the functioning of the platform on undeclared work, which is why i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has already recognised in previous debates that 'black labour' is a widespread problem in europe, which not only has a negative impact on workers but also causes serious deficits and imbalances in public tax revenues and social contributions. the european commission proposes the creation of a platform to exchange good practice and strengthen professional and advocacy work in the member states, as this could help to promote job advertisement, employee safety and the work of decision-makers in the field of employment and economic policy. as you know, one of the most difficult tasks in investigating undeclared work is to identify undeclared work, because it is often hidden. we are all in this together to fight against undeclared work, but everyone has to do their homework at home and this can only be done most effectively on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ in its previous debates, the european parliament has recognised that 'black labour' is a widespread problem in europe, with a negative impact not only on workers but also on public tax revenues and social contributions, causing serious deficits and imbalances. the european commission proposes the creation of a platform to exchange good practice and strengthen professional and advocacy work in the member states, as this could help to promote job advertisement, employee safety and the work of decision-makers in the field of employment and economic policy. as you know, one of the most difficult tasks in investigating undeclared work is to identify undeclared work, because it is often hidden. based on good practices so far, hungary has done a lot in recent years to whiten the economy, e.g. by introducing online atms. in addition, the introduction of job protection schemes for hundreds of thousands of people, tax incentives to encourage employment and new forms of atypical employment (simplified employment, multi-employer employment, etc.) have also contributed significantly to the reduction of black employment in the country. we are all in this together to fight against undeclared work, but everyone has to do their homework at home and this can only be done most effectively on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ in its previous debates, the european parliament has recognised that 'black labour' is a widespread problem in europe, with a negative impact not only on workers but also on public tax revenues and social contributions, causing serious deficits and imbalances. the european commission proposes the creation of a platform to exchange good practice and strengthen professional and advocacy work in the member states, as this could help to promote job advertisement, employee safety and the work of decision-makers in the field of employment and economic policy. as you know, one of the most difficult tasks in investigating undeclared work is to identify undeclared work, because it is often hidden. based on good practices so far, hungary has done a lot in recent years to whiten the economy, e.g. by introducing online atms. in addition, the introduction of job protection schemes for hundreds of thousands of people, tax incentives to encourage employment and new forms of atypical employment (simplified employment, multi-employer employment, etc.) have also contributed significantly to the reduction of black employment in the country. we are all in this together to fight against undeclared work, but everyone has to do their homework at home and this can only be done most effectively on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ in its previous debates, the european parliament has recognised that 'black labour' is a widespread problem in europe, with a negative impact not only on workers but also on public tax revenues and social contributions, causing serious deficits and imbalances. the european commission proposes the creation of a platform to exchange good practice and strengthen professional and advocacy work in the member states, as this could help to promote job advertisement, employee safety and the work of decision-makers in the field of employment and economic policy. as you know, one of the most difficult tasks in investigating undeclared work is to identify undeclared work, because it is often hidden. based on good practices so far, hungary has done a lot in recent years to whiten the economy, e.g. by introducing online atms. in addition, the introduction of job protection schemes for hundreds of thousands of people, tax incentives to encourage employment and new forms of atypical employment (simplified employment, multi-employer employment, etc.) have also contributed significantly to the reduction of black employment in the country. we are all in this together to fight against undeclared work, but everyone has to do their homework at home and this can only be done most effectively on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the first step in successfully tackling the complex problem of undeclared work is to examine its nature objectively. this study shows that in fact the avoidance of proper notification can be considered as the direct cause of the numerous and highly adverse consequences and impacts associated with the problem. agreeing on the true nature of undeclared work and the proposed mandate of the platform will allow us to reach agreement on a number of issues concerning membership, participation, procedures and decision-making. it also provides a basis for the establishment of a work programme which takes full account of the need for targeted action to reverse the current trend in the spread of undeclared work and to increase the number of regularised jobs that provide decent livelihoods and useful services to clients, while contributing to fair competition in the market and sustainable financial stability.
in writing. ‒ in its previous debates, the european parliament has recognised that 'black labour' is a widespread problem in europe, with a negative impact not only on workers but also on public tax revenues and social contributions, causing serious deficits and imbalances. the european commission proposes the creation of a platform to exchange good practice and strengthen professional and advocacy work in the member states, as this could help to promote job advertisement, employee safety and the work of decision-makers in the field of employment and economic policy. as is well known, one of the most difficult tasks in investigating undeclared employment is to identify undeclared work, because it is often hidden. based on good practices so far, hungary has done a lot in recent years to whiten the economy, e.g. by introducing online atms. in addition, the introduction of job protection schemes for hundreds of thousands of people, tax incentives to encourage employment and new forms of atypical employment (simplified employment, multi-employer employment, etc.) have also contributed significantly to the reduction of black employment in the country. we are all in this together to fight against undeclared work, but everyone has to do their homework at home and this is the most effective way to do it, based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ in previous debates, the european parliament has recognised that 'black labour' is a common problem in europe. this not only has a negative impact on workers, but also causes serious deficits and imbalances in public tax revenues and social contributions. black employment of 15 to 20% is also not uncommon in the member states. the european commission has proposed the creation of a platform to exchange good practice between member states and to strengthen professional and advocacy work. this can greatly facilitate job advertisement, employee safety and the work of decision-makers in the field of employment and economic policy. as you know, one of the most difficult tasks in investigating undeclared work is to identify undeclared work, because it is often hidden. based on good practices so far, hungary has done a lot in recent years to whitewash the economy, e.g. by introducing online atms. in addition, the introduction of job protection schemes for hundreds of thousands of people, tax incentives to encourage employment and new forms of atypical employment (simplified employment, multi-employer employment, etc.) have also contributed significantly to the reduction of black employment in the country. we're all in this together to fight black labor, but everyone has to do their homework at home. this is most effectively possible through the principle of subsidiarity. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ in its previous debates, the european parliament has recognised that 'black labour' is a widespread problem in europe, with a negative impact not only on workers but also on public tax revenues and social contributions, causing serious deficits and imbalances. the european commission proposes the creation of a platform to exchange good practice and strengthen professional and advocacy work in the member states, as this could help to promote job advertisement, employee safety and the work of decision-makers in the field of employment and economic policy. as you know, one of the most difficult tasks in investigating undeclared work is to identify undeclared work, because it is often hidden. based on good practices so far, hungary has done a lot in recent years to whiten the economy, e.g. by introducing online atms. in addition, the introduction of job protection schemes for hundreds of thousands of people, tax incentives to encourage employment and new forms of atypical employment (simplified employment, multi-employer employment, etc.) have also contributed significantly to the reduction of black employment in the country. we are all in this together to fight against undeclared work, but everyone has to do their homework at home and this can only be done most effectively on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has submitted a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the subject referred to in this title. in its proposal, the commission voted in favour of an implementation-based approach, proposing increased cooperation in the fight against labour law violations, tax evasion and breaches of social security rules. however, the employment and social committee argues in its report that implementation should be accompanied by proactive, incentive-based policies and measures aimed at regularising the remaining undeclared jobs. such measures may include income tax rebates, tax reductions and the introduction of support schemes. the fact that the practice of undeclared work in the member states is not diminishing shows that there is a demand for these jobs, as well as a supply. therefore, instead of banning these jobs, they should be introduced into the formal rules and regulations of the social market economy, all the more so as production needs to be stimulated to counter the current slow growth and deflation. the report therefore recommends that parliament should support the commission's proposal, with the adoption of more than 60 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ in its previous debates, the european parliament has recognised that 'black labour' is a widespread problem in europe, with a negative impact not only on workers but also on public tax revenues and social contributions, causing serious deficits and imbalances. the european commission proposes the creation of a platform to exchange good practice and strengthen professional and advocacy work in the member states, as this could help to promote job advertisement, employee safety and the work of decision-makers in the field of employment and economic policy. as you know, one of the most difficult tasks in investigating undeclared work is to identify undeclared work, because it is often hidden. based on good practices so far, hungary has done a lot in recent years to whiten the economy, e.g. by introducing online atms. in addition, the introduction of job protection schemes for hundreds of thousands of people, tax incentives to encourage employment and new forms of atypical employment (simplified employment, multi-employer employment, etc.) have also contributed significantly to the reduction of black employment in the country. we are all in this together to fight against undeclared work, but everyone has to do their homework at home and this can only be done most effectively on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i consider the report to be important and well-worked, which is why i supported it. i believe that the practice of undeclared work is causing enormous damage to the member states and ultimately to the eu as a whole. this not only entails tax evasion damages, but also raises personal and systemic social security issues. unfortunately, in hungary there is a high number of undeclared workers and the practice of declaring an employee for a lower wage on paper. i believe that the workers are the most vulnerable in this process, because in most cases it is the employers who are abusing them, and their loopholes in the law make this possible. i said during the debate in the european parliament that a uniform minimum wage system at eu level could be an effective tool to prevent and eliminate labour fraud! the report builds on the european platform on undeclared work, initiated by the european commission, in which the level of participation is decided by the member states. in my view, the only way to achieve results is through a combination of active member state involvement and common european cohesion. i also believe that the role of trade unions should be strengthened in the fight against undeclared or paper-based minimum wage employment.
in writing. ‒ in its previous debates, the european parliament has recognised that 'black labour' is a widespread problem in europe, with a negative impact not only on workers but also on public tax revenues and social contributions, causing serious deficits and imbalances. the european commission proposes the creation of a platform to exchange good practice and strengthen professional and advocacy work in the member states, as this could help to promote job advertisement, employee safety and the work of decision-makers in the field of employment and economic policy. as you know, one of the most difficult tasks in investigating undeclared work is to identify undeclared work, because it is often hidden. based on good practices so far, hungary has done a lot in recent years to whiten the economy, e.g. by introducing online atms. in addition, the introduction of job protection schemes for hundreds of thousands of people, tax incentives to encourage employment and new forms of atypical employment (simplified employment, multi-employer employment, etc.) have also contributed significantly to the reduction of black employment in the country. we are all in this together to fight against undeclared work, but everyone has to do their homework at home and this can only be done most effectively on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the mid-term evaluation of the community-level biodiversity strategy highlights several points of interest and problems related to the implementation of the strategy and the achievement of its objectives. the rapporteur mentions that the objectives of the strategy should be achieved by the member states by 2020 at the latest, but that in many member states the integration of these objectives into the different national policies has not yet begun, let alone the actual objectives have been achieved. one of the greatest positives of the report is the criticism not only of the member states and the commission for inaction and inconsistency, but also of the strategy, which is criticized for its excessive expectations and objectives, and for its one-sidedness. it is important that the member states and, in particular, the commission should take greater account of the precautionary principle when authorising the production or marketing of various genetically modified organisms. however, there are parts of the report that would result in the removal of national competence in some sub-areas, for example, it would create a single eu-level environmental control system, which could also be a precursor to the introduction of a single eu-level environmental penalty. on balance, i found the report to be generally supportive.
in writing. ‒ it is of the utmost importance that biodiversity, the unparalleled variety of earth's ecosystems, habitats, species and gene pools, of which humans are a part, is invaluable in itself. humans are also highly dependent on biodiversity for many valuable ecosystem services - such as clean air, clean water, raw materials, pollinators and flood protection, to name a few. biodiversity is therefore a vital foundation for our health, well-being and economic well-being.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has presented a report on the mid-term evaluation of the eu biodiversity strategy. the report concludes that biodiversity is a vital foundation for our health, well-being and economic prosperity, but it is also under serious pressure, both globally and in europe. however, european efforts to halt biodiversity loss failed in 2010, and the eu developed a new strategy in 2011 to halt biodiversity loss and the degradation of ecosystem services, restore them where possible by 2020, and help reverse biodiversity loss worldwide. the report concludes that without further significant efforts, the eu will again fail to meet its 2020 targets. a wealth of statistical data demonstrates that investing in nature and biodiversity is socially and economically necessary, and calls for stronger political will to effectively halt biodiversity loss. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that biodiversity is key not only for the environment in its narrow sense, but also for its welfare, health, job creation and economic impact. the mid-2015 review, in which the european commission found that the measures in place were insufficient, is an important basis. i explained during the plenary debate on the report that while we believe the legal framework is good, there are flaws in the implementation. i said that when it comes to closing the gap, we should look first and foremost at governments, because they always find economic, political reasons to feel exempt from their obligations. in this case, however, the resources spent on biodiversity conservation are unfortunately wasted. i believe that the violation of nature should be considered as an act similar to the violation of human dignity. i believe that such cases should be investigated at eu level, even if they involve the suspension of aid to the areas concerned. i believe it is important to implement the eu's bird and habitat directives immediately and we cannot delay any longer. i also think that it is reasonable to encourage and support environmentally friendly or organic farming methods if we can ensure adequate food supply.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity, the unique variety of earth's ecosystems, habitats, species and genetic resources, of which humans are a part, is invaluable in itself. the loss of biodiversity is particularly harmful and a loss for nature, people and the economy, threatening essential ecosystem services and undermining the earth's natural resilience to address emerging challenges. the world economic forum's 2014 global risk assessment ranked biodiversity loss and ecosystem collapse among the top 10 risks it identified as the most significant. i voted in favour of the document.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. although i share some of the problems you've listed, i have a very simple question: what do you think the solution is? because i see that when it came to the enlargement of the european union, everyone was very enthusiastic. but when it comes to diving, every member state has something very, very different about it: germany lets everybody in, hungary lets nobody in, and i could go on. what is your solution?
every day, between 2,000 and 3,000 migrants continue to arrive uncontrollably in the eu. because of this crowd, only a fraction of people register, and if they register in the right way, the hotspots don't work. let us be honest, the problem is not a lack of solidarity between member states. with that much overhead, the system can't handle the situation. tensions arise between member states, governments and social groups. even now, the arrivals of thousands of migrants a day are destabilizing europe. the security of european citizens and the stability of europe should therefore be the primary task and responsibility of all european decision-makers. today, it is clear at the eu decision-making level, as those who have faced the flood of migrants since the summer have seen, that europe is dealing with the vast majority of those who are not entitled to asylum. most of the economic migrants are young or middle-aged men, and most of the unaccompanied minors are young boys between the ages of 14 and 18. europe must be able to cope with the chaos at its external borders within days - this is nothing more than a technical issue. only a stable europe can help, can show solidarity with those most in need, those who are entitled to refugee status.
the schengen convention is perhaps the most important expression of an open, free and nationalist europe. for a europe that is not divided by borders but held together by the freedom of liberal democracy. today, schengen is in serious danger. the excuse is refugees, but the reality is different. it's about the resurgence of nationalism in europe, the politics of closure, of exclusion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's budget is properly spent. and we can't accept that! we cannot allow anti-european and populist parties to impose their will on us. we cannot allow european refugee policy to become a prisoner of far-right parties and ideologies. we know that boundaries and fences don't help. they don't stop the refugees and they don't protect us from the terrorists. it requires other means, european solidarity, a common will! the safety of our citizens is paramount and we cannot sacrifice our freedom, our european identity, on the altar of security. restoring borders, suspending or terminating schengen would mean the end of the european idea. of course, there are parties and governments in europe that would be happy to do so, but we will not give them that pleasure. europe is not a conglomerate of competing nations, but a common home for all, seeking prosperity and security, and schengen is its supreme institution.
this merged debate is about immigration. in fact, the title consistently talks about refugees, asylum, which also indicates that they are not facing reality. to quote a catholic archbishop, who said in a press release: "the vast majority of immigrants are not refugees, not syrians, and not families. muslims can't and won't adapt. they came to the battlefield, not to adapt, but to conquer. well, we should be facing this, instead of the issues we're dealing with here: the no-return policy and the so-called hate crimes against migrants. in the course of these three or four hours, i have developed the opinion that the majority of the parliament, whether willingly or unwillingly, is becoming accommodation for the new colonists under the spell of a false tolerance clause. i don't think that's what the voters wanted you to do. they wanted you to protect their security and protect european culture.
four motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 february 2016 at 12.30. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after the question for oral answer by mr matthias groote, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, mr bas eickhout, mr merja kyllönen and mr piernicola pedicini to the commission, concerning the measures taken by the commission to comply with the judgment in case t-521/14 sweden v commission (obligation to lay down criteria for endocrine disruptors) (o-000003/2016 b8-0107/2016) (2016/2536rsp)).
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. for three years, both producers and users have been waiting for the european commission to carry out a preliminary impact assessment of the legislation setting out a conditional system for the possible prohibition of pesticides containing substances that interfere with the maintenance of hormones. it seems that the european court's judgment in sweden v european commission has caused the commission to rush into preparing an impact assessment, or to omit an impact assessment altogether. in order to assess the appropriate health, economic and social impacts, the commission needs to carry out a thorough work which cannot be completed in a few months, let alone omitted. i would remind the commission to comply with the provisions of the guidelines on impact assessments. in particular, it is necessary to carry out a preliminary impact assessment for both legislative and non-legislative acts, as well as for delegated and implementing acts.
the following point is replaced by the commission statement on transparency and control of clinical trials (2016/2534 ((rsp)).
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
it's a two-card draw. the question actually continues the list of problems you have made, mainly in the mediterranean region. we have recently read from a german child rescue service that 60,000 unaccompanied minors crossed the german border in the past year alone. how do you see this? how do you explain that?
mr president, whatever the nature of the final package, the strategy of the united kingdom has turned out to be a high—risk one. the decision to call a referendum on uk membership of the european union is primarily about the united kingdom’s domestic politics satisfying the eurosceptics. let us hope that the package that emerges from the february summit will assuage the dissatisfaction of the eurosceptics, though i rather doubt it frankly – their campaign will certainly continue. what hardly anybody seems to be saying, however, is that there is a two-way relationship between the united kingdom and the rest of the european union. the european union, therefore, is a stakeholder – indeed, a major stakeholder – in the outcome of the referendum. even if the vote is for staying, much will change. the relationship between the eu and the 27 and the united kingdom will be conditioned by the sense that the european union went up to the wire for the united kingdom, so the united kingdom had better be more constructive in future. if, of course, the eventual vote is for leaving, then years of upheaval will follow. for central europe, the key question is the free movement of labour: one of the four freedoms. any derogation from this immediately raises the question of the free movement of the other three, the free movement of capital being a key issue for the united kingdom. no-one wants to see these freedoms endangered.
this is a critical time for the european union. the challenges of our time, the refugee crisis, schengen, the economic crisis, the euro crisis, the british referendum, the attempts to undermine democracy and the fundamental values of the eu in some member states, are all issues that need to be addressed. a common and european solution. our responses to these challenges will determine the future of the union, the fate of our children and grandchildren, for decades to come. i'd say we're on a journey of self-discovery. either we have the strength and the courage to find real, courageous, common and forward-looking solutions, or everything we have built up will collapse. we cannot accept a show of solutions that are not in line with the eu's core values of human rights, democracy and solidarity between member states. national selfishness and nationalism take us backwards in time, not forward. it is therefore necessary to extend and deepen cooperation within the european union. we need a common europe, a common european policy.
in writing. we have seen examples in the history of the european union where some member states have tried to slow down or even reverse political integration. the luxembourg compromise of the 1960s, the reintroduction of the national veto, set the union back by two decades. half a century later, we can't afford to let that happen again. the president of the european council recently made public the proposal to meet the uk's demands for reform. the council's proposal would, among other things, allow britain to restrict the rights of eu citizens working on its territory and would put the european community back on the path of nation-state life. no one is claiming that the european union is perfect or infallible. however, freedom of work and equality of rights irrespective of nationality are fundamental values of the european union that cannot be the subject of political bargaining. the challenges facing the union, the greek crisis, the refugee crisis, the russian aggression, cannot be met by 'doing it alone'. we should finally forget the idea of national sovereignty, which was very fashionable in the 19th century but is now outdated. in the most difficult moments, the united states chose closer cooperation, federation, and now it is the most powerful state in the world. why do some national leaders think that doing the opposite is in europe's interest?
in writing. a key agenda item for the next eit is a draft compromise agreement between the eu and the uk government. in addition to the issues criticised by the cameron government (economic governance, competitiveness, sovereignty), the free movement of labour and the possible restriction of social benefits for hundreds of thousands of hungarian workers are listed as highly important demands. in relation to the latter, certain points of the document such as the withdrawal of job search assistance are totally unacceptable from a hungarian point of view. the system of benefits for european workers may be partly revised and corrected, but its principles and acquis cannot be altered in any way. cameron's right-wing, conservative government has taken the bike off the populist track and is now serving the anti-eu, anti-immigration and anti-immigration masses in an attempt to show off and deliver on some of its election promises. the european union community must seek compromise and agreement, but it must not allow populist blackmail to gain ground and set an example for others. he fears that other european countries could join the ranks, which could also negatively affect the lives of hungarians living there. at the next european council, viktor orbán will also have the duty to protect the rights and legitimate interests of european workers, including the hundreds of thousands of hungarians working in britain, by all possible means.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation allows for the temporary suspension of the preferences provided for in the eu-moldova association agreement in the event that a significant increase in imports from moldova would threaten to damage the eu's internal market. the adoption of this regulation is necessary in order to incorporate it into the internal legal order of the eu in a manner that makes the anti-circumvention procedure applicable.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation allows for the temporary suspension of the preferences provided for in the eu-moldova association agreement in the event that a significant increase in imports from moldova would threaten to damage the eu's internal market. the adoption of the proposal is necessary in order to ensure the practical application of the so-called anti-circumvention procedure laid down in the association agreement.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation allows for the temporary suspension of the preferences provided for in the eu-moldova association agreement in the event that a significant increase in imports from moldova would threaten to damage the eu's internal market. the adoption of the proposal is necessary in order to ensure the practical application of the so-called anti-circumvention procedure laid down in the association agreement.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova , like most of our trade agreements, includes a bilateral safeguard clause. this instrument allows for the temporary suspension of trade preferences in case their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase of imports, causing significant economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party (i.e. it is possible to either suspend further tariff liberalisation or re-establish the most favourable tariff rate). furthermore, that agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism which provides for the possibility of reinstating the mfn in case imports of certain agricultural products originating in moldova exceed a certain threshold and do not provide adequate justification for their precise origin. i am convinced that a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to introduce into eu internal law the instrument for the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation allows for the temporary suspension of the preferences provided for in the eu-moldova association agreement in the event that a significant increase in imports from moldova would threaten or damage the eu's internal market. the adoption of the proposal is necessary to make the so-called anti-circumvention procedure laid down in the association agreement applicable in practice.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the anti-circumvention mechanism for the temporary suspension of safeguard clauses and tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. the proposed arrangements allow for the temporary suspension of the preferences provided for in the eu-moldova association agreement in the event that a significant increase in imports from moldova would threaten to damage the eu internal market. the adoption of the proposal is necessary in order to ensure the practical application of the so-called anti-circumvention procedure laid down in the association agreement.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova contains a bilateral safeguard clause which allows for the temporary suspension of trade preferences if their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase in imports, causing significant economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party. the agreement also contains a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which allows the reintroduction of the mfn in cases where imports of certain agricultural products originating in moldova exceed a certain threshold and no justification is given for their precise origin. however, a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to introduce the necessary instrument for the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism into eu internal law. the commission has proposed that this be done. the international trade committee report notes that the proposed regulation implements the provisions of the eu-moldova association agreement to which the european parliament gave its consent on 13 november 2014. acceptance of moldova is necessary to enforce its obligations under the agreement in order to protect union producers where appropriate. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation allows for the temporary suspension of the preferences provided for in the eu-moldova association agreement in the event that a significant increase in imports from moldova would threaten to damage the eu's internal market. the adoption of the proposal is necessary in order to ensure the practical application of the so-called anti-circumvention procedure laid down in the association agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the decision, given that the additional provisions contained therein are essential for the implementation of the association agreement and are essentially identical to the safeguard mechanisms used in trade agreements with other eu partners. the trade policy safeguards and measures to prevent circumvention are also appropriate to ensure that the benefits granted to moldova are not exploited by other third parties. i also considered the fact that moldova is a preferential trading partner of the eu, but that a significant part of its exports is agricultural products and that any conflict of interest of eu producers due to the association agreement should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation allows for the temporary suspension of the preferences provided for in the eu-moldova association agreement in the event that a significant increase in imports from moldova would threaten to damage the eu's internal market. the adoption of the proposal is necessary in order to ensure the practical application of the so-called anti-circumvention procedure laid down in the association agreement.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova , like most of our trade agreements, includes a bilateral safeguard clause. this instrument allows for the temporary suspension of trade preferences in cases where their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase of imports, causing significant economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party. the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary in order to enforce the obligations of the moldova agreement and to protect union producers where appropriate. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention procedure which allows the re-introduction of duties applicable to the most favoured nation if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed the threshold set in the agreement without adequate justification. this regulation is necessary in order to incorporate it into the internal legal framework of the eu in a proper manner and thus to make the anti-circumvention procedure applicable.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention procedure which allows the re-introduction of duties applicable to the most favoured nation if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed the threshold set in the agreement without adequate justification. this regulation is necessary in order to incorporate it into the internal legal framework of the eu in a proper manner and thus to make the anti-circumvention procedure applicable.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention procedure which allows the re-introduction of duties applicable to the most favoured nation if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed the threshold set in the agreement without adequate justification. this regulation is necessary in order to incorporate it into the internal legal framework of the eu in a proper manner and thus to make the anti-circumvention procedure applicable.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention procedure which allows the re-introduction of duties applicable to the most favoured nation if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed the threshold set in the agreement without adequate justification. this regulation is necessary in order to incorporate it into the internal legal framework of the eu in a proper manner and thus to make the anti-circumvention procedure applicable.
in writing. ‒ i would like to stress that the proposed regulation implements the relevant provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement approved by the european parliament on 18 december 2015. the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary in order to enforce the obligations of georgia under the provisions of the agreement on the anti-circumvention mechanism, thereby protecting european producers where necessary. i also welcome the commission's reporting obligation in the proposal, whereby the commission will submit an annual report to the co-legislators on the application and implementation of the regulation, which will then be made public. the european parliament may invite the commission to an ad hoc meeting of its competent committee to present and explain any question arising in connection with the implementation of the agreement. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's trade policy is properly implemented. in the light of the above considerations, i propose, in agreement with the rapporteur, that the european parliament adopt the commission proposal without amendments.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention procedure which allows the re-introduction of duties applicable to the most favoured nation if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed the threshold set in the agreement without adequate justification. this regulation is necessary in order to incorporate it into the internal legal framework of the eu in a proper manner and thus to make the anti-circumvention procedure applicable.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the anti-circumvention mechanism for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other partthe eu-georgia association agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention procedure which provides for the possibility of re-introducing the duties applicable to the 'most favoured nation' (now the favoured nation) in the event that imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed the threshold set in the agreement without adequate justification. this regulation is necessary in order to incorporate it into the internal legal framework of the eu in a proper manner and thus to make the anti-circumvention procedure applicable.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with georgia includes an anti-circumvention mechanism, which allows the reintroduction of the mfn if imports of certain agricultural products originating in georgia exceed a certain threshold and no justification is given for their precise origin. however, a regulation of the european parliament and the council is needed to incorporate the instrument for the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism into eu internal law. the commission proposed that this be adopted. the international trade committee report notes that the proposed regulation implements the provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement, which was endorsed by the european parliament on 18 december 2015. the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary in order to enforce the obligations of georgia under the provisions of the agreement on the anti-circumvention mechanism, thereby protecting european producers where necessary.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention procedure which allows the re-introduction of duties applicable to the 'most favoured nation' in the event that imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed the threshold set in the agreement without adequate justification. this regulation is necessary in order to incorporate it into the internal legal framework of the eu in a proper manner and thus to make the anti-circumvention procedure applicable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the decision, given that the additional provisions contained therein are essential for the implementation of the association agreement and are essentially identical to the safeguard mechanisms used in trade agreements with other eu partners. the trade policy safeguards and measures to prevent circumvention are also appropriate to ensure that the benefits granted to georgia are not exploited by other third parties. i also considered the fact that georgia is a preferential trading partner of the eu, but that a significant part of its exports are agricultural products and that any conflict of interest of union producers due to the association agreement should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention procedure which allows the re-introduction of duties applicable to the most favoured nation if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed the threshold set in the agreement without adequate justification. this regulation is necessary in order to incorporate it into the internal legal framework of the eu in a proper manner and thus to make the anti-circumvention procedure applicable.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement includes an 'anti-circumvention' mechanism which provides for the possibility of reinstating the most favourable tariff if imports of certain agricultural products originating in georgia exceed a certain threshold and no adequate justification is given for their precise origin. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to introduce the instrument for the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism into eu internal law. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution, on the basis of a petition 924/2011 from the peti committee, urges the member states that are blocking minorities in the european council to stop obstructing the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty (marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by visually impaired persons and persons with print disabilities) by the european union. despite the fact that the treaty was adopted in june 2013, the european union has not yet ratified it, mainly due to disputes between the european commission and the council (e.g. competence and certain implementation-procedural issues). however, the draft decision is outdated due to the formal communication of the luxembourg presidency, as, on the one hand, the european commission applied to the court of justice of the european union on 14 july 2015 to provide guidance on the scope and nature of the treaty. the european commission also promised in october 2015 to present a concrete legislative proposal to settle the disputed issues, which is of a guaranteeing nature for the subsequent proper implementation of the convention. from this moment on, we are faced with a legal question, not a political one, which must be resolved before ratification can take place. in view of all this, i have now abstained from the vote, continuing to support a swift, effective ratification, guaranteeing a clear implementation.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution, on the basis of a petition 924/2011 from the peti committee, urges the member states that are blocking minorities in the european council to stop obstructing the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty (marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by visually impaired persons and persons with print disabilities) by the european union. despite the fact that the treaty was adopted in june 2013, the european union has not yet ratified it, mainly due to disputes between the european commission and the council (e.g. competence and certain implementation-procedural issues). however, the draft decision is outdated due to the formal communication of the luxembourg presidency, as, on the one hand, the european commission applied to the court of justice of the european union on 14 july 2015 to provide guidance on the scope and nature of the treaty. the european commission also promised in october 2015 to present a concrete legislative proposal to settle the disputed issues, which is of a guaranteeing nature for the subsequent proper implementation of the convention. from this moment on, we are faced with a legal question, not a political one, which must be resolved before ratification can take place. in view of all this, i have now abstained from the vote, continuing to support a swift, effective ratification, guaranteeing a clear implementation.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution, on the basis of a petition 924/2011 from the peti committee, urges the member states that are blocking minorities in the european council to stop obstructing the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty (marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by visually impaired persons and persons with print disabilities) by the european union. despite the fact that the treaty was adopted in june 2013, the european union has not yet ratified it, mainly due to disputes between the european commission and the council (e.g. competence and certain implementation-procedural issues). however, the draft decision is outdated due to the formal communication of the luxembourg presidency, as, on the one hand, the european commission applied to the court of justice of the european union on 14 july 2015 to provide guidance on the scope and nature of the treaty. the european commission also promised in october 2015 to present a concrete legislative proposal to settle the disputed issues, which is of a guaranteeing nature for the subsequent proper implementation of the convention. from this moment on, we are faced with a legal question, not a political one, which must be resolved before ratification can take place. in view of all this, i have now abstained from the vote, continuing to support a swift, effective ratification, guaranteeing a clear implementation.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution, on the basis of a petition 924/2011 from the peti committee, urges the member states that are blocking minorities in the european council to stop obstructing the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty (marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by visually impaired persons and persons with print disabilities) by the european union. despite the fact that the treaty was adopted in june 2013, the european union has not yet ratified it, mainly due to disputes between the european commission and the council (e.g. competence and certain implementation-procedural issues). however, the draft decision is outdated due to the formal communication of the luxembourg presidency, as, on the one hand, the european commission applied to the court of justice of the european union on 14 july 2015 to provide guidance on the scope and nature of the treaty. the european commission also promised in october 2015 to present a concrete legislative proposal to settle the disputed issues, which is of a guaranteeing nature for the subsequent proper implementation of the convention. from this moment on, we are faced with a legal question, not a political one, which must be resolved before ratification can take place. in view of all this, i have now abstained from the vote, continuing to support a swift, effective ratification, guaranteeing a clear implementation.
in writing. ‒ articles 24 and 30 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities emphasise the right of persons with disabilities to non-discriminatory and equal opportunities education, while ensuring that laws protecting intellectual property rights do not constitute an unjustified or discriminatory barrier to access to cultural products for persons with disabilities. i find it deeply outrageous that seven eu member states have formed a minority group which is obstructing the process of ratifying the treaty. calls on the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process and not to tie it to a review of the eu legal framework or to a ruling by the court of justice of the european union;
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution, on the basis of a petition 924/2011 from the peti committee, urges the member states that are blocking minorities in the european council to stop obstructing the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty (marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by visually impaired persons and persons with print disabilities) by the european union. despite the fact that the treaty was adopted in june 2013, the european union has not yet ratified it, mainly due to disputes between the european commission and the council (e.g. on competence and certain implementation procedures). however, the draft decision is outdated due to the formal communication of the luxembourg presidency, as, on the one hand, the european commission applied to the court of justice of the european union on 14 july 2015 to provide guidance on the scope and nature of the treaty. the european commission also promised in october 2015 to present a concrete legislative proposal to settle the disputed issues, which is of a guaranteeing nature for the subsequent proper implementation of the convention. from this moment on, we are faced with a legal question, not a political one, which must be resolved before ratification can take place.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on the incorporation of the marrakesh treaty into eu law, on the basis of a proposal from the committee on petitions, urges the blocking minority member states in the european council not to obstruct the ratification process any further. despite the fact that the treaty was adopted in june 2013, the european union has not yet ratified it, mainly due to the dispute between the european commission and the council. however, the decision is out of date as the luxembourg presidency has been formally informed. the european commission already requested guidance from the court of justice of the european union on 14 july 2015 on the scope and nature of the contract. the european commission also promised in october 2015 to present a concrete legislative proposal to settle the disputed issues, which is of a guaranteeing nature for the subsequent proper implementation of the convention. from this moment on, we are faced with a legal question, not a political one, which must be resolved before ratification can take place. in view of all this, i abstained from the vote, continuing to support a swift and effective ratification, guaranteeing a clear implementation.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution, on the basis of a petition 924/2011 from the peti committee, urges the member states that are blocking minorities in the european council to stop obstructing the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty (marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by visually impaired persons and persons with print disabilities) by the european union. despite the fact that the treaty was adopted in june 2013, the european union has not yet ratified it, mainly due to disputes between the european commission and the council (e.g. competence and certain implementation-procedural issues). however, the draft decision is outdated due to the formal communication of the luxembourg presidency, as, on the one hand, the european commission applied to the court of justice of the european union on 14 july 2015 to provide guidance on the scope and nature of the treaty. the european commission also promised in october 2015 to present a concrete legislative proposal to settle the disputed issues, which is of a guaranteeing nature for the subsequent proper implementation of the convention. from this moment on, we are faced with a legal question, not a political one, which must be resolved before ratification can take place. in view of all this, i have now abstained from the vote, continuing to support a swift, effective ratification, guaranteeing a clear implementation.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh treaty on the facilitation of access to published works for the blind, visually impaired and print-disabled was adopted on 27 june 2013. the treaty was signed by the union and its member states in april 2014, giving a political commitment to ratify it. however, seven eu member states have formed a minority group that is hampering the process of ratifying the treaty, despite the fact that according to a 2010 estimate by the world health organisation, there are some 26 350 000 visually impaired people in europe, on whose behalf numerous petitions have been filed to gain access to books and other printed products. the report of the committee on petitions recommends that the european parliament should express its deep indignation in a resolution and call on the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process, without tying it to a review of the eu legal framework or a ruling by the court of justice of the european union. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution, on the basis of a petition 924/2011 from the peti committee, urges the member states that are blocking minorities in the european council to stop obstructing the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty (marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by visually impaired persons and persons with print disabilities) by the european union. despite the fact that the treaty was adopted in june 2013, the european union has not yet ratified it, mainly due to disputes between the european commission and the council (e.g. competence and certain implementation-procedural issues). however, the draft decision is outdated due to the formal communication of the luxembourg presidency, as, on the one hand, the european commission applied to the court of justice of the european union on 14 july 2015 to provide guidance on the scope and nature of the treaty. the european commission also promised in october 2015 to present a concrete legislative proposal to settle the disputed issues, which is of a guaranteeing nature for the subsequent proper implementation of the convention. from this moment on, we are faced with a legal question, not a political one, which must be resolved before ratification can take place. in view of all this, i have now abstained from the vote, continuing to support a swift, effective ratification, guaranteeing a clear implementation.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution, on the basis of a petition 924/2011 from the peti committee, urges the member states that are blocking minorities in the european council to stop obstructing the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty (marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by visually impaired persons and persons with print disabilities) by the european union. despite the fact that the treaty was adopted in june 2013, the european union has not yet ratified it, mainly due to disputes between the european commission and the council (e.g. competence and certain implementation-procedural issues). however, the draft decision is outdated due to the formal communication of the luxembourg presidency, as, on the one hand, the european commission applied to the court of justice of the european union on 14 july 2015 to provide guidance on the scope and nature of the treaty. the european commission also promised in october 2015 to present a concrete legislative proposal to settle the disputed issues, which is of a guaranteeing nature for the subsequent proper implementation of the convention. from this moment on, we are faced with a legal question, not a political one, which must be resolved before ratification can take place. in view of all this, i have now abstained from the vote, continuing to support a swift, effective ratification, guaranteeing a clear implementation.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation estimated in 2010 that there were 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 visually impaired people in europe, giving a total of 26 350 000 visually impaired people. the so-called marrakesh treaty, signed by the union and the member states in april 2014, aims to facilitate access to published works for blind and visually impaired persons and persons who are unable to read printed text. they have committed to ratify it. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified soybean fg72 produces 2mepsps and hppd w336 proteins, which make it resistant to the herbicides isoxaflutole and glyphosate. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • in the field trials, the fg72 soybean control was not an isogenic line but a selected unmodified conventional line; • the genetically modified fg72 soybean differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of components, phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. the use of plant protection products containing such active substances may be increased during cultivation, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified soybean fg72 produces 2mepsps and hppd w336 proteins, which make it resistant to the herbicides isoxaflutole and glyphosate. the risk assessment carried out reveals a number of shortcomings, including: • the soybean control of fg72 in the field trials was not an isogenic line but a selected unmodified conventional line. • the genetically modified soybean fg72 differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of components, phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. the use of plant protection products containing such active substances may be increased during cultivation, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified soybean fg72 produces 2mepsps and hppd w336 proteins, which make it resistant to the herbicides isoxaflutole and glyphosate. the risk assessment carried out reveals a number of shortcomings, including: • the soybean control of fg72 in the field trials was not an isogenic line but a selected unmodified conventional line. • the genetically modified soybean fg72 differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of components, phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. the use of plant protection products containing such active substances may be increased during cultivation, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the draft commission implementing decision on the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council, i consider that the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council, which, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, is to provide a basis for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. in the light of the above, i call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ fg72's genetically modified soybean produces 2mepsps and hppd w336 proteins, which make it resistant to the herbicides isoxaflutole and glyphosate. the risk assessment carried out shows a number of shortcomings. the use of plant protection products containing such active substances may be increased during cultivation, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in my view, a genetically modified product should not be authorised in the european union unless it has been subject to adequate health and environmental safety testing. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i did not support the authorisation of gm products and supported the objection.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified soybean fg72 produces 2mepsps and hppd w336 proteins, which make it resistant to the herbicides isoxaflutole and glyphosate. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • in the field trials, the fg72 soybean control was not an isogenic line but a selected unmodified conventional line; • the genetically modified fg72 soybean differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of components, phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. the use of plant protection products containing such active substances may be increased during cultivation, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified soybean fg72 produces 2mepsps and hppd w336 proteins, which make it resistant to the herbicides isoxaflutole and glyphosate. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • in the field trials, the fg72 soybean control was not an isogenic line but a selected unmodified conventional line; • the genetically modified fg72 soybean differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of components, phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. the use of plant protection products containing such active substances may be increased during cultivation, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been thoroughly tested for health and environmental safety. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified fg72 soybean. the background to the opinion is that on 24 june 2011 bayer cropscience submitted a marketing authorisation application to the competent belgian authority. that soybean expresses the protein 2mepsps, which confers resistance to glyphosate-containing herbicides, and the protein hppd w336, which confers resistance to herbicides containing the active substance isoxaflutol. the who international agency for research on cancer classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen in 2015. since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, authorisation decisions have been adopted by the commission without the opinions of the member state committees and it has become common practice for gm food and feed to have a specific exceptional decision-making procedure where the dossier is returned to the commission for final approval. i agree that even if production necessarily takes place in the territory of a member state, trade in gmos is cross-border, which means that the national 'sale and use' ban proposed by the commission could not be enforced in the single internal market. that is why i supported the withdrawal of the implementing regulation and the commission's presentation of a new legislative proposal, taking into account the concerns often expressed by member states that are not only related to the health or environmental risks posed by gmos.
in writing. ‒ bayer cropscience ag has submitted an application to the competent authority of belgium for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from fg72 soybean. as described in the application, the genetically modified soybean mst-fgø72-2 expresses the protein 2mepsps, which confers resistance to glyphosate-containing herbicides, and the protein hppd w336, which confers resistance to the herbicides containing the active substance isoxaflutol. the rapporteur requests the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision in this case. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position on this issue.
in writing. ‒ single modified soybean sheets of mon 87708 (dicamba produces monooxygenase protein) and mon 89788 (cp4 produces epsps protein) have been combined to create the double modified genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. this made the soybean resistant to the herbicides dicamba and glyphosate. the use of dicamba and glyphosate-based herbicides during cultivation may be increased, which may subsequently increase the residual levels of the crop. their widespread use also increases the emergence of a resistant gypsy population. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • no 90-day rat feeding study has been conducted with the product;• no repeat dose study has been conducted with cp4 epsps protein. the amount of formaldehyde produced in gm soybeans is not a purely natural process, as the neutralization of the active substance dicamba is also accompanied by the formation of formaldehyde. this substance is classified as a human carcinogen. new research suggests that formaldehyde may accumulate in herbicide-tolerant gm plants due to a disruption in the metabolism of detoxifying enzymes. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ single modified soybean sheets of mon 87708 (dicamba produces monooxygenase protein) and mon 89788 (cp4 produces epsps protein) have been combined to create the double modified genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. this made the soybean resistant to the herbicides dicamba and glyphosate. the use of dicamba and glyphosate-based herbicides during cultivation may be increased, which may subsequently increase the residual levels of the crop. their widespread use also increases the emergence of a resistant gypsy population. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • no 90-day rat feeding study has been conducted with the product;• no repeat dose study has been conducted with cp4 epsps protein. the amount of formaldehyde produced in gm soybeans is not a purely natural process, as the neutralization of the active substance dicamba is also accompanied by the formation of formaldehyde. this substance is classified as a human carcinogen. new research suggests that formaldehyde may accumulate in herbicide-tolerant gm plants due to a disruption in the metabolism of detoxifying enzymes. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ single modified soybean sheets of mon 87708 (dicamba produces monooxygenase protein) and mon 89788 (cp4 produces epsps protein) have been combined to create the double modified genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. this made the soybean resistant to the herbicides dicamba and glyphosate. the use of dicamba and glyphosate-based herbicides during cultivation may be increased, which may subsequently increase the residual levels of the crop. their widespread use also increases the emergence of a resistant gypsy population. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • no 90-day rat feeding study has been conducted with the product;• no repeat dose study has been conducted with cp4 epsps protein. the amount of formaldehyde produced in gm soybeans is not a purely natural process, as the neutralization of the active substance dicamba is also accompanied by the formation of formaldehyde. this substance is classified as a human carcinogen. new research suggests that formaldehyde may accumulate in herbicide-tolerant gm plants due to a disruption in the metabolism of detoxifying enzymes. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified soybean described in the application expresses dicamba-monooxygenase proteins which confer tolerance to dicamba-containing herbicides and a type of protein which confer tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. since glyphosate was classified as a probable human carcinogen on 20 march 2015 by the international agency for research on cancer the who specialized agency for cancer , i consider it appropriate to call on the commission to submit a new legislative proposal under the treaty on the functioning of the european union to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 taking into account the concerns of member states, which are frequently expressed, and which are not limited to the risks to health or the environment posed by gmos.
in writing. ‒ single modified soybean sheets of mon 87708 (dicamba produces monooxygenase protein) and mon 89788 (cp4 produces epsps protein) have been combined to create the double modified genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. this made soybeans resistant to the herbicides dicamba and glyphosate. the use of dicamba and glyphosate-based herbicides during cultivation may be increased, which may subsequently increase the residual levels of the crop. their widespread use also increases the emergence of a resistant gypsy population. the risk assessment carried out shows a number of shortcomings. the amount of formaldehyde produced in the genetically modified soybean is not exclusively a natural process, as the neutralisation of the active substance dicamba is also accompanied by the formation of formaldehyde. this substance is classified as a human carcinogen. new research suggests that formaldehyde may accumulate in herbicide-tolerant gm plants due to a disruption in the metabolism of detoxifying enzymes. in my view, a genetically modified product should not be authorised in the european union unless it has been subject to adequate health and environmental safety testing. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i did not support the authorisation of gm products and supported the objection.
in writing. ‒ single modified soybean sheets of mon 87708 (dicamba produces monooxygenase protein) and mon 89788 (cp4 produces epsps protein) have been combined to create the double modified genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. this made the soybean resistant to the herbicides dicamba and glyphosate. the use of dicamba and glyphosate-based herbicides during cultivation may be increased, which may subsequently increase the residual levels of the crop. their widespread use also increases the emergence of a resistant gypsy population. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • no 90-day rat feeding study has been conducted with the product;• no repeat dose study has been conducted with cp4 epsps protein. the amount of formaldehyde produced in gm soybeans is not a purely natural process, as the neutralization of the active substance dicamba is also accompanied by the formation of formaldehyde. this substance is classified as a human carcinogen. new research suggests that formaldehyde may accumulate in herbicide-tolerant gm plants due to a disruption in the metabolism of detoxifying enzymes. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ single modified soybean sheets of mon 87708 (dicamba produces monooxygenase protein) and mon 89788 (cp4 produces epsps protein) have been combined to create the double modified genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. this made the soybean resistant to the herbicides dicamba and glyphosate. the use of dicamba and glyphosate-based herbicides during cultivation may be increased, which may subsequently increase the residual levels of the crop. their widespread use also increases the emergence of a resistant gypsy population. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • no 90-day rat feeding study has been conducted with the product;• no repeat dose study has been conducted with cp4 epsps protein. the amount of formaldehyde produced in gm soybeans is not a purely natural process, as the neutralization of the active substance dicamba is also accompanied by the formation of formaldehyde. this substance is classified as a human carcinogen. new research suggests that formaldehyde may accumulate in herbicide-tolerant gm plants due to a disruption in the metabolism of detoxifying enzymes. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2003 on genetically modified food and feed lays down the procedure for authorising the placing on the market of such products. on 23 march 2012, monsanto europe s.a. submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mon 87708 × mon 89788 soybean. the commission adopted a draft commission implementing decision on the authorisation under that regulation. in its report, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety referred to parliament's resolution of 16 december 2015 on commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 of 4 december 2015 authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 × t25 recommends that parliament express its opinion that genetically modified organisms are inherently harmful to human health. i am convinced that it is not for politicians but for scientists to decide on the impact of gm foods on human health, and i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been thoroughly tested for health and environmental safety. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. on 23 march 2012, monsanto europe s.a. submitted a marketing authorisation application to the competent authority of the netherlands. the genetically modified soybean expresses the proteins dicamba monooxygenase, which confers tolerance to dicamba-containing herbicides, and the cp 4 epsps protein, which confers tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. the who international agency for research on cancer classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen in 2015. since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, authorisation decisions have been adopted by the commission without the opinions of the member state committees and it has become common practice for gm food and feed to be returned to the commission for final approval. i agree that even if production necessarily takes place in one member state, trade in gmos crosses borders. the commission's proposed ban on national 'sales and use' could therefore not be enforced in the single internal market. i supported the withdrawal of the regulation and the commission's presentation of a new legislative proposal that would provide a basis for a high level of protection of human and animal health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ monsanto europe s.a. has submitted an application to the competent authority of the netherlands for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mon 87708 × mon 89788 soybean. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position on this issue.
in writing. ‒ mon 87705 and mon 89788 single-modified soybean sheets have been combined to create the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 with double modifications. this has made soybeans resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate and has a different fatty acid profile. despite the fact that the active substance referred to above is not considered to be of emerging toxicity, there are numerous data in the scientific literature on its adverse effects on human and animal health. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of constituents (excluding altered fatty acid profile), phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. • in vivo feeding studies were replaced by an in vitro digestion test, which is not always suitable to replace the feeding experiment. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ mon 87705 and mon 89788 single-modified soybean sheets have been combined to create the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 with double modifications. this has made soybeans resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate and has a different fatty acid profile. despite the fact that the active substance referred to above is not considered to be of emerging toxicity, there are numerous data in the scientific literature on its adverse effects on human and animal health. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of constituents (excluding altered fatty acid profile), phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. • in vivo feeding studies were replaced by an in vitro digestion test, which is not always suitable to replace the feeding experiment. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ mon 87705 and mon 89788 single-modified soybean sheets have been combined to create the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 with double modifications. this has made soybeans resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate and has a different fatty acid profile. despite the fact that the active substance referred to above is not considered to be of emerging toxicity, there are numerous data in the scientific literature on its adverse effects on human and animal health. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including: • the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of constituents (excluding altered fatty acid profile), phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. • in vivo feeding studies were replaced by an in vitro digestion test, which is not always suitable to replace the feeding experiment. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified soybean described in the application expresses dicamba-monooxygenase proteins which confer tolerance to dicamba-containing herbicides and a type of protein which confer tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. since glyphosate was classified as a probable human carcinogen on 20 march 2015 by the international agency for research on cancer the who specialized agency for cancer , i consider it appropriate to call on the commission to submit a new legislative proposal under the treaty on the functioning of the european union to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 taking into account the concerns of member states, which are frequently expressed, and which are not limited to the risks to health or the environment posed by gmos.
in writing. ‒ mon 87705 and mon 89788 single-modified soybean sheets have been combined to create the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 with double modifications. this has made soy glyphosate resistant to the active substance herbicides and has a different fatty acid profile. despite the fact that the active substance referred to above is not considered to be of emerging toxicity, there are numerous data in the scientific literature on its adverse effects on human and animal health. the risk assessment carried out shows a number of shortcomings. in my view, a genetically modified product should not be authorised in the european union unless it has been subject to adequate health and environmental safety testing. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i did not support the authorisation of genetically modified products.
in writing. ‒ mon 87705 and mon 89788 single-modified soybean sheets have been combined to create the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 with double modifications. this has made soybeans resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate and has a different fatty acid profile. despite the fact that the active substance referred to above is not considered to be of emerging toxicity, there are numerous data in the scientific literature on its adverse effects on human and animal health. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including:• the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of constituents (excluding altered fatty acid profile), phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. • in vivo feeding studies were replaced by an in vitro digestion test, which is not always suitable to replace the feeding experiment. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ mon 87705 and mon 89788 single-modified soybean sheets have been combined to create the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 with double modifications. this has made soybeans resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate and has a different fatty acid profile. despite the fact that the active substance referred to above is not considered to be of emerging toxicity, there are numerous data in the scientific literature on its adverse effects on human and animal health. the risk assessment carried out revealed several deficiencies, including:• the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 differed significantly from the control in terms of its content of constituents (excluding altered fatty acid profile), phenotypic and agronomic characteristics. however, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be such as to require further studies, as they were not biologically relevant. • in vivo feeding studies were replaced by an in vitro digestion test, which is not always suitable to replace the feeding experiment. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2003 on genetically modified food and feed lays down the procedure for authorising the placing on the market of such products. on 11 august 2011, monsanto europe s.a. submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application to place on the market foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mon 87705 × mon 89788 soybean. the commission adopted a draft commission implementing decision on the authorisation under that regulation. in its report, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety referred to parliament's resolution of 16 december 2015 on commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 of 4 december 2015 authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 × t25 recommends that parliament express its opinion that genetically modified organisms are inherently harmful to human health. i am convinced that it is not for politicians but for scientists to decide on the impact of gm foods on human health, and i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been thoroughly tested for health and environmental safety. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788. the company monsanto europe s.a. submitted a marketing authorisation application to the competent authority of the netherlands on 11 august 2011. this soybean expresses reduced levels of the δ12 fatty acid desaturase and palmitoyl-acp thioesterase enzymes, resulting in increased oleic acid content and reduced linoleic acid content, and expresses the cp4 epsps protein, providing tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. the who international agency for research on cancer classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen in 2015. since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, authorisation decisions have been adopted by the commission without the opinions of the member state committees and it has become common practice for gm food and feed to be returned to the commission for final approval. i agree that even if production takes place in one member state, trade in gmos crosses borders. the commission's proposed ban on national 'sales and use' could therefore not be enforced in the single internal market. i supported the withdrawal of the regulation and the commission's presentation of a new legislative proposal that would provide a basis for a high level of protection of human and animal health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ monsanto europe s.a. has submitted an application to the competent authority of the netherlands for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mon 87705 × mon 89788 soybean. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position on this issue.
despite the positive changes that have taken place in recent decades, the level of air pollution is a matter of concern. the number of premature deaths could be as high as 400,000. the commission has also received comments from interested parties on the measures taken by the goc to address the concerns raised by the commission in the opening decision. the volkswagen scandal has demonstrated the need for real-world testing. the commission implementing regulation is not appropriate to achieve the environmental objective pursued. the adoption of the proposal has resulted in the possibility of exceeding the required target emissions by up to twice by 2020. for all these reasons, i supported a parliament resolution rejecting the european commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been working for years to find a solution to the problem that vehicle emissions are much higher in real driving conditions than in laboratory testing. the painful truth is that according to the latest calculations by the european commission, the emissions of euro 6 diesel engines currently produced on the road exceed the test bench results by an average of 400%! the european commission's draft implementing regulation is an important part of the solution to the problem, which aims to reduce emissions as quickly as possible in real terms. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exemption from the requirement of a minimum speed limit is justified by the fact that the maximum speed limit is set at a lower speed than the maximum speed limit. in reality, the regulation represents a major step forward. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the new limits, however, provide for real emission reductions, significantly reducing the health and environmental risks. in my view, the draft law strikes the right balance between environmental and public health objectives and the preservation of domestic jobs and the competitiveness of industry. i am convinced that a responsible decision-maker does not make rules based on wishful thinking. it would be irresponsible to insist on something that has been proven technically impossible over time. we can't fool anyone by accepting unrealistic rules.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been working for years to find a solution to the problem that vehicle emissions are much higher in real driving conditions than in laboratory testing. the painful truth, according to the latest calculations by the european commission, is that the emissions of euro 6 diesel engines currently produced on the road exceed the benchmark by an average of 400%. the european commission's draft implementing regulation is an important part of the solution to the problem, which aims to reduce emissions as quickly as possible in real terms. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exemption from the requirement of a minimum speed limit of 80 g/km is justified by the fact that the maximum speed limit is set at 80 g/km. in reality, the regulation represents a major step forward. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the new limits, however, provide for real emission reductions, significantly reducing the health and environmental risks. in my view, the draft law strikes the right balance between environmental and public health objectives and the preservation of domestic jobs and the competitiveness of industry. i am convinced that a responsible decision-maker does not make rules based on wishful thinking. it would be irresponsible to insist on something that has been proven technically impossible over time. we can't fool anyone by accepting unrealistic rules.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been working for years to find a solution to the problem that vehicle emissions are much higher in real driving conditions than in laboratory testing. the painful truth is that according to the latest calculations by the european commission, the emissions of euro 6 diesel engines currently produced on the road exceed the test bench results by an average of 400%! the european commission's draft implementing regulation is an important part of the solution to the problem, which aims to reduce emissions as quickly as possible in real terms. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exemption from the requirement of a minimum speed limit of 80 g/km is justified by the fact that the maximum speed limit is set at 80 g/km. in reality, the regulation represents a major step forward. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the new limits, however, provide for real emission reductions, significantly reducing the health and environmental risks. in my view, the draft law strikes the right balance between environmental and public health objectives and the preservation of domestic jobs and the competitiveness of industry. i am convinced that a responsible decision-maker does not make rules based on wishful thinking. it would be irresponsible to insist on something that has been proven technically impossible over time. we can't fool anyone by accepting unrealistic rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it cannot be ignored that air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the union every year, and the estimated costs of its health effects amount to eur 940 billion per year, and because nitrogen oxides (nox) are among the main pollutants and cause, among others, lung cancer, asthma and many respiratory diseases. it is also worrying that the european environment agency's recent analysis of air pollution attributes 75 000 premature deaths to nitrogen dioxide emissions in europe, and 93% of exceedance of limit values occurs near roads.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been working for years to find a solution to the problem that vehicle emissions are much higher in real driving conditions than in laboratory testing. the european commission's latest calculations show that the emissions of euro 6 diesel engines currently in production exceed the benchmark on the road by an average of 400%. the european commission's draft implementing regulation is an important part of the solution to the problem, which aims to reduce emissions as quickly as possible in real terms. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exemption from the requirement of a minimum speed limit of 80 g/km is justified by the fact that the maximum speed limit is set at 80 g/km. in reality, the regulation represents a major step forward. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the new limits, however, provide for real emission reductions, significantly reducing the health and environmental risks. in my view, the draft law strikes the right balance between environmental and public health objectives and the preservation of domestic jobs and the competitiveness of industry. i am convinced that a responsible decision-maker does not make rules based on wishful thinking. it would be irresponsible to insist on something that has been proven technically impossible over time.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been working for years to find a solution to the problem that vehicle emissions are much higher in real driving conditions than in laboratory testing. the painful truth is that according to the latest calculations by the european commission, the emissions of euro 6 diesel engines currently produced on the road exceed the test bench results by an average of 400%! the european commission's draft implementing regulation is an important part of the solution to the problem, which aims to reduce emissions as quickly as possible in real terms. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exemption from the requirement of a minimum speed limit of 80 g/km is justified by the fact that the maximum speed limit is set at 80 g/km. the regulation represents a significant step forward compared to current real emissions. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the new limits, however, provide for real emission reductions, significantly reducing the health and environmental risks. in my view, the draft law strikes the right balance between environmental and public health objectives and the preservation of domestic jobs and the competitiveness of industry. i am convinced that a responsible decision-maker does not make rules based on wishful thinking. it would be irresponsible to insist on something that has been proven technically impossible over time. we can't fool anyone by accepting unrealistic rules.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been working for years to find a solution to the problem that vehicle emissions are much higher in real driving conditions than in laboratory testing. the painful truth is that according to the latest calculations by the european commission, the emissions of euro 6 diesel engines currently produced on the road exceed the test bench results by an average of 400%! the european commission's draft implementing regulation is an important part of the solution to the problem, which aims to reduce emissions as quickly as possible in real terms. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exemption from the requirement of a minimum speed limit of 80 g/km is justified by the fact that the maximum speed limit is set at 80 g/km. in reality, the regulation represents a major step forward. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the new limits, however, provide for real emission reductions, significantly reducing the health and environmental risks. in my view, the draft law strikes the right balance between environmental and public health objectives and the preservation of domestic jobs and the competitiveness of industry. i am convinced that a responsible decision-maker does not make rules based on wishful thinking. it would be irresponsible to insist on something that has been proven technically impossible over time. we can't fool anyone by accepting unrealistic rules.
in writing. ‒ the commission has adopted a draft regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety recommends that parliament take the view that the draft commission regulation would in fact result in a general deviation from the applicable emission limit values and is therefore incompatible with union law, since it is incompatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 715/2007. recommends that the commission should also be informed of the results of the evaluation of the proposed measures and the reasons for its decision; i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been working for years to find a solution to the problem that vehicle emissions are much higher in real driving conditions than in laboratory testing. the painful truth is that according to the latest calculations by the european commission, the emissions of euro 6 diesel engines currently produced on the road exceed the test bench results by an average of 400%! the european commission's draft implementing regulation is an important part of the solution to the problem, which aims to reduce emissions as quickly as possible in real terms. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exemption from the requirement of a minimum speed limit of 80 g/km is justified by the fact that the maximum speed limit is set at 80 g/km. in reality, the regulation represents a major step forward. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the new limits, however, provide for real emission reductions, significantly reducing the health and environmental risks. in my view, the draft law strikes the right balance between environmental and public health objectives and the preservation of domestic jobs and the competitiveness of industry. i am convinced that a responsible decision-maker does not make rules based on wishful thinking. it would be irresponsible to insist on something that has been proven technically impossible over time. we can't fool anyone by accepting unrealistic rules.
in writing. ‒ i consider the objection to and the vote on the new rules on diesel car emissions to be an important agenda item. the draft new rules, in addition to introducing what i consider to be a good real-world emission test (rde), will increase the 2007 limit for nitrogen oxides from diesel cars by up to 110%. this package was approved by the eu member states by the decision of the technical committee on motor vehicles of 28 october, in which the european commission proposed to increase the nox emission limit for motor vehicles by 110% for new models from september 2017 and for all new motor vehicles from september 2019. i voted in favour of the objection to the draft decision. in my opinion, the majority's failure to support the objection is a step backwards and not right. i think it is important to note that the european parliament's environment committee has already decided that parliament should veto the relaxation of the limit values because it undermines compliance with existing eu standards. i am sure that, in addition to the negative environmental and health aspects of the issue, it raises other technical problems which i will take into account in my work on the diesel scandal committee.
in writing. ‒ air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the union each year, and the estimated cost of its health effects is €940 billion per year. as nitrogen oxides (nox) are among the main pollutants, they cause lung cancer, asthma and many respiratory diseases, among others, and are also responsible for cases of environmental damage. the draft measure requires manufacturers to ensure that emissions during the real driving test at type-approval and throughout the life cycle of the vehicle do not exceed certain 'non-exhaustible (nte) emission limits'. i voted in favor of the motion.
the report concerns a multilateral agreement on international trade in services. this agreement threatens eu standards and jobs for services, public services for eu citizens and the right of member states to regulate. so i rejected this new step towards globalization. the task of the union's leadership is not to open up new markets to multinational companies, partly at the expense of developing countries and partly at the expense of weaker eu member states, but to protect the citizens and jobs of the union and to help developing countries to produce their own needs and services and not to alienate europe. that's why i turned down the offer.
in writing. ‒ the report on the negotiations for a trade in services agreement (tisa) which has just been adopted is called the own-initiative report (ini). accordingly, it is not legally binding, nor does it require legislation. in accordance with the evaluation of the situation by the fidesz-kdnp people's party delegation, i will form my own position in full knowledge of the text.
in writing. ‒ the report on tisa that has just been adopted is called the own-initiative report (ini). accordingly, it has no binding legal force, nor does it require legislation. the fidesz-kdnp delegation will form its own position in the light of the full text.
in writing. the report on tisa that has just been adopted is called the own-initiative report (ini). accordingly, it has no binding legal force, nor does it require legislation. the fidesz-kdnp delegation will form its own position in the light of the full text.
in writing. ‒ the report on tisa that has just been adopted is called the own-initiative report (ini). accordingly, it has no binding legal force, nor does it require legislation. the fidesz-kdnp delegation will form its own position in the light of the full text.
in writing. ‒ any trade agreement should provide more rights and lower prices for european consumers and more jobs and greater protection for workers, and should contribute to sustainable development and global corporate social responsibility at the global level, and ensure a level playing field for european companies. in view of the above, i am convinced that trade policy should be fully aligned with and contribute to the implementation of the ilo's decent work agenda and the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the report on the tsa, now adopted, is called the own-initiative report (ini). accordingly, it has no binding legal force, nor does it require legislation. the fidesz-kdnp delegation will form its own final position in full knowledge of the legal text.
in writing. ‒ the report on tisa that has just been adopted is called the own-initiative report (ini). accordingly, it has no binding legal force, nor does it require legislation. the fidesz-kdnp delegation will form its own position in the light of the full text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament plays a key role in the union's trade policy. not only do representatives have the final say on trade agreements, but they should also be promptly and fully informed at all stages of the negotiation and conclusion of trade agreements in order to be able to monitor trade negotiations on an ongoing basis. in order to shape the course of the negotiations, parliament may express its position at any time during the negotiation process. the report by the committee on international trade assesses the first two and a half years and 13 rounds of negotiations on a trade in services agreement (tisa) and recommends that parliament make clear and firm recommendations to the european commission. it suggests that parliament should take the view that the tisa negotiations should ensure increased reciprocity in market access, a level playing field at global level, tangible benefits for consumers and access to negotiations for stakeholders in order to facilitate the future multilateral framework. it also proposes that public and cultural services, fundamental rights to data protection and fair working conditions, and the right to regulate should not be negotiated and should be clearly excluded from the scope of the agreement. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the report on tisa that has just been adopted is called the own-initiative report (ini). accordingly, it has no binding legal force, nor does it require legislation. the fidesz-kdnp delegation will form its own position in the light of the full text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the negotiations for the trade in services agreement (tisa). i agreed with the report's call that any trade agreement, including tisa, should be in the interests of european consumers and workers and that sustainability criteria should be taken into account in the negotiations. i also welcome the fact that the report stresses that trade policy must be fully in line with the recommendations of the international labour organisation (ilo) on decent work. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. at the same time, we must ensure that smes also benefit from this opportunity and are not disadvantaged, for example, in the public procurement market. however, i regret that the majority did not support the exclusive application of the positive list. i have taken a stand for myself because i believe that would have created a situation that is much more transparent and clearer than the one in the adopted proposal.
in writing. ‒ in the context of globalisation, the service-orientation and digitalisation of both our economies and international trade calls for urgent political action to strengthen international rules. tisa provides an opportunity for the eu to consolidate its role as the world's largest exporter of services, with a 25% share of global services exports and a trade surplus of eur 170 billion in 2013. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ four draft resolutions have been tabled on a new european strategy on women's rights and gender equality for the period after 2015: the proposal of the efdd, the epp and the ecr groups, and the joint proposal of the s&d, alde, gue/ngl and verts/ale groups. i voted for the latter.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is one of the fundamental values of the european union. this is important not only for the role of women in the economy and society, but also for the eu's broader economic objectives. on the other hand, we see that even the objectives of the 2010-15 strategy have not been met, that political momentum has slowed down over the last decade and that the commission is reluctant to adopt a document for the next period. all this while discrimination against women is at the governmental level in hungary, the average hourly gender pay gap in some member states is as high as 25-30%, and 16 member states are inexplicably reluctant to ratify the istanbul convention on violence against women, including hungary, but also germany. how can we credibly promote gender equality in our development policy in third countries when we have so much to do in our own member states? it is clear that further efforts are needed to establish a coherent legal framework. it is unacceptable that when both the european parliament and the council, as representatives of the member states, are urging a specific strategy to continue the programme which expires in 2015, all with the overwhelming agreement of european citizens, the european commission is not fulfilling its duty and is not adopting a specific document. we need concrete commitments with directions and a budget for that. without them, there's no way to measure progress and there's no way to move forward.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the new strategy on women's rights and gender equality for the period after 2015. i believe that the pursuit of gender balance is an important objective. gender equality is one of the eu's fundamental values, recognised in the treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the european union is committed to mainstreaming this objective in all its activities, as gender equality is a strategic objective and a key element in achieving the 2020 pan-european targets for growth, employment and social inclusion. the commission's 2016 work programme, published in november 2015, does not specifically mention the eu strategy on gender equality for the period after 2015, and i share the view of the resolution that it is regrettable. the european commission has published only one commission staff working document entitled 'a strategic engagement for gender equality (2016-2019) '. in doing so, it not only submitted a classified internal document, but also limited the duration of the intervention.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is one of the eu's core values recognised in the treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which the eu has committed to mainstreaming in all its activities, and whereas gender equality as a strategic objective is essential to achieve the pan-european targets for growth, employment and social inclusion by 2020. whereas the right to equal treatment is a fundamental right recognised in the treaties establishing the european union and deeply rooted in european society, indispensable for the further development of that society, and whereas that right must be guaranteed in legislation, practice, case-law and everyday life; i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
my colleagues in the house are aware that there is a report on serbia on the agenda?
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you. of course, one can criticise everything, and i myself am often dissatisfied with certain reform processes in the associated countries, but the fact is that this commission has actually suspended the accession process for five years. do you think that this has had a discouraging effect on the serbian processes and perhaps that is where the problems should be traced back to? i don't know, man. what do you think of that?
i see, mr. carver, that you're applying for the catch-the-eye card, and you just spoke in a minute and a half. a lot of my congressmen are waiting for the catch-the-eye procedure. i can't give you the floor. you had a chance to say what you wanted to say. please understand, the list is long.
madam president, i believe that we in this chamber have many and very strong reasons to support the accession process of serbia. i agree with my colleagues that serbia has already made considerable progress on this road. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very strong and balanced report and i urge everybody to vote ‘yes’ in the vote next time. as a friend of serbia, however, i would like to raise one point that has already been underlined by my esteemed friend charles tannock, and that is that, sooner or later, chapters 30 and especially 31 of the acquis will be opened. as a historian i fully understand that nations have traditional friends among the great powers, but this is going to raise issues because the acquis requires an accession state to contribute to the common foreign and security policy. there may be political powers which serbia might be looking for which are trying to undermine the common foreign and security policy, but i am just warning that these are exactly the same political forces that are against enlargement.
my colleague david mcallister has again successfully summarised the themes that defined the year in the serbian euro-integration process. important steps have been taken, resulting in the opening of the first negotiating chapters with serbia. it is also important to further deepen the eu's partnership with serbia, for example in the management of the migrant crisis, where, unfortunately, we have to say that the eu has in many cases been indebted to serbia in terms of defining precise expectations. however, serbia still has important tasks to catch up in a number of other areas. among the priorities, i would mention the rule of law and the safeguarding of human and minority rights, in particular because the commission and the council will examine in the coming months the steps taken in this area in order to give the green light to the opening of negotiating chapters 23 and 24. in serbia, many promising legislative action plans have been drawn up in recent months, but we know that implementation is key, and this is important not only for the opening of negotiating chapters, but above all for the citizens of serbia to enjoy the rule of law at european level as soon as possible. this is particularly important for national minorities, including the community of the hungarian community in vojvodina, to which i belong. i believe that this parliamentary report seeks to give further impetus and guidance to the serbian government on the path towards the eu.
i can only welcome the fact that after a difficult year, accession negotiations with serbia finally began last december. however, in order to make substantive progress, the symbolic opening should lead to the opening of negotiating chapters 23 and 24 this year, i.e. serbia should show real results in the areas of democratic rule of law, the rule of law and justice, and fundamental human and minority rights. it is characteristic that the majority of the amendments to the mcallister report are minority rights. in the past, the union has been too lenient on minority issues when certain countries joined. let's not make the same mistake with serbia. as a romanian hungarian, defending the interests of serbian hungarians and romanians, vlachs, i have the highest expectations for the minority action plan and the minority policy in serbia. these are the essential preconditions for the country's accession to the eu.
in the context of the eu progress report on serbia, i would like to address the situation of national minorities. the law on national councils has not yet been amended. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the new law on the appointment of judges. the ep urges the adoption of the law as soon as possible. however, this does not oblige serbia to do anything. meanwhile, the national councils are unable to function properly because of the limitation of their powers. after the privatisation of the media, the broadcasting of programmes in minority languages will cease. that's a violation of vested rights. the report calls on the serbian government to implement international conventions on the rights of minorities. that word please is too short. it's about fulfilling international obligations. this should be a clear call to serbia to do so.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 4 february 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the 2015 country report on serbia is a balanced, realistic and objective document. serbia has taken important steps in the past year, which have opened the first negotiating chapters. the report highlights the achievements so far in regional cooperation and in dealing with the migrant and refugee crisis, but also points to shortcomings, particularly in the areas of freedom of expression and media, the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime. in the past year, serbia has produced many promising laws and action plans, the implementation of which is crucial not only for the opening of negotiating chapters, but also for the citizens of serbia to receive the rule of law at european level as soon as possible. this is particularly important for national minority communities, including the former hungarian community. this report seeks to provide further incentives and guidance to the serbian government.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague mr mcallister on his well-balanced annual report on serbia, covering all the important areas. i welcome the adoption of our amendments, which this year include a separate chapter on respecting and protecting national minorities. these communities are in a unique situation, and they are concerned not only with rights but also with equal opportunities. it is important to ensure equal treatment, to treat members of these communities as equal citizens in all areas of life. it is essential to ensure the use of the mother tongue, access to education in the mother tongue, and the right textbooks. i welcome the fact that the report highlights that the cultural diversity of vojvodina contributes to serbia's identity and stresses that its autonomy must not be weakened. the law on the resources of the land of vistula shall be adopted without further delay in the manner prescribed by the constitution. the system of national minority councils in the principality of liechtenstein is well functioning and their role in promoting the rights of national minorities is important, and their funding should therefore be ensured. the report welcomes serbia's commitment to a targeted action plan for national minorities, but also stresses that the rights already acquired must not be withdrawn or mutilated. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new eu acquis, in particular the acquis on the protection of minorities and the acquis on the protection of minorities. i therefore consider it important that the commission monitors the application of and compliance with existing legislation.
the following point is inserted after point (b) of article 2 (1) of protocol no 2 on the position of denmark, annexed to the teu and to the tfeu, and after point (b) of article 2 (2) of protocol no 2 on the position of denmark, annexed to the teu and to the tfeu, and after point (c) of article 3 (1) of protocol no 2 on the position of denmark, annexed to the teu and to the tfeu:
it's a two-card draw. - mr. speaker, i have to ask you to excuse me. in this parliament we are used to examining the european approach of several countries. we're teaching them a lesson about kosovo, telling them what they should do, but do you feel that we have homework? for example, five european union member states have not yet recognized kosovo as an independent state. what do you think of that?
i feel like the congressman has put me on the spot because of my chairmanship. mr. representative, do you think that every member of my house, when he uses a greeting card, is constantly asking one question for 30 seconds? the thing is, no. so the direction is right, of course, the question in the blue card is a question, but it also has a possibility of opinion and response. thank you for your warning.
the signing of the stability and association agreement with the union last october was an extraordinary and rapid step forward for the young state of kosovo. however, the support of the european community does not mean that we can be satisfied with the achievements of the former yugoslav province so far. while we can legitimately expect the five remaining states to recognise kosovo's independence and serbia to normalise its relations with it, we also legitimately demand that the new albanian state closes in on the union in all respects, implements the necessary reforms and fights corruption and violence. above all, it must guarantee the rights of the serb community in its territory, rights which it rightly demanded from the serb majority in the state at that time, in its previous status as a minority. in their european integration, kosovo and serbia are inevitably interdependent. it is up to them to reinforce each other or to block each other out of the union.
the rapporteur of the parliamentary question wants the eu to sign the un convention which allows investors to resort to arbitration in disputes between an investor and a state. such judgments shall be binding on the parties and shall be final. the eu cannot sign the convention at the moment because enough member states are blocking it. the rapporteur refuses to accept this sovereign decision and calls on the council presidency to put pressure on the member states. this is a very dubious procedure. and, moreover, for those who, as we have heard, consider the isds procedure illegitimate and consider it to be a serious infringement of the sovereignty of the member states, why should they accept it in itself, if this process, which has been rejected, is to become transparent?
in writing. in all cases where matters of public interest are concerned, transparency is a fundamental requirement. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the airport. such arbitration proceedings can have a direct impact on the state budget and the state's ability to provide basic services essential to citizens. where, in the context of an investment agreement, the parties agree to use this dispute settlement procedure, irrespective of whether or not we agree with the existence of this institution as such, it is essential that there be no obstacles to the application of the rules ensuring transparency. following this principle promotes the accountability of the state, since not only the transaction between the investor and the state, but also its consequences are public affairs.
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i'm glad we're having this discussion today because we're talking honestly about an important issue, but i'm also very sad that it has been triggered by a series of events that we may not even be talking honestly about right now. excesses that seemed far away yesterday have come ruthlessly close today. i think we're facing a new kind of organized violence that we're not prepared for. it's a sad fact that it's young women, girls, that are most affected. organized violence itself is always scary, especially if we let it do that. we must take action against violence in all its forms with zero tolerance. we need effective action, not a hearing. i can't believe the mayor of cologne is serious about keeping a distance, girls don't wear short skirts and no perfume. that's not true. let's not be naive. the cologne rapists knew exactly where the line was, they were just trying. they're the ones who are winning right now. it's an unfortunate fact, if i have to say it, that this is the reality. in christian culture in europe, women have always been respected. we can't let this go.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. speaker, i have to ask you to excuse me. i myself agree that the local and regional authorities need to be much more involved in the work of this and other funds. so we have a deal. but i would ask you how you can prevent certain funds from going into the hands of politics, political parties, and then these authorities themselves being politically exposed?
in writing. the european structural and investment funds were set up to achieve sustainability and growth, which promote economic, social and cohesive development. as we know, the economic and social conditions are in place to contribute to these funds and make them more accessible to the member states. in addition to the linking of the european structural and investment funds and the european fund for strategic investments, the issue of giving local and regional authorities a greater role in the management of the funds is also important. in the past, particularly for smaller organisations or companies, excessive controls and red tape have caused additional costs and time constraints. therefore, this amendment could have the advantage of a more rational allocation of resources, in addition to simplifying accessibility, thus increasing the motivation of users. if local and regional authorities can manage the funds more directly, the conditions can be more flexible and more specific, in line with the specific territorial and other circumstances.
in writing. the eu's cohesion policy is one of the best examples of multilevel governance. the involvement of regional and local authorities in decision-making is appropriate as they are the closest to citizens, have the best knowledge of local development needs and consultation with them also strengthens the democratic dimension of the union. the motion for a resolution encourages the exploitation of synergies between the eu structural and investment funds and other eu programmes, in which local and regional authorities can play a useful role. however, the proposal notes that, although local and regional authorities were consulted most often in the negotiations on partnership agreements and operational programmes, their involvement did not constitute a full partnership. furthermore, the degree of consultation of the authorities varies from one member state to another. i believe it is important to strengthen the administrative and institutional capacity of local and regional authorities, so that they can participate more effectively in the shaping of cohesion policy. however, i believe that consultation of the authorities should not lead to an increase in the administrative burden, which is already heavy in cohesion policy, and to a significant slowdown in decision-making.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to make it clear that all the important political forces in this parliament are in favour of a solution to the situation in crimea, and the primary means to achieve this is for putin and the forces supported by putin to stop the assassination that they are using against the crimean people, including the tatars. i think that the efforts being made here in this parliament to weaken europe and to reduce the possibility of expressing our solidarity are in fact doing putin a favour. a gift to putin is any move here in the european parliament, in the european union, that breaks our unity. so i ask all the forces to hold up the sanctions imposed by the european union on russia and not to try to lift them just because there are other reasons. weakening european unity is the greatest crime we can commit.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a balanced, realistic and objective document with its 2015 country report on serbia. serbia has taken important steps in the past year, which have opened the first negotiating chapters. the report highlights the achievements so far in regional cooperation and in dealing with the migrant and refugee crisis, but also points to shortcomings, particularly in the areas of freedom of expression and the media, the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime. in the past year, serbia has produced many promising laws and action plans, the implementation of which is crucial not only for the opening of negotiating chapters, but also for the citizens of serbia to receive the rule of law at european level as soon as possible. this is particularly important for national minority communities, including the former hungarian community. this report seeks to provide further incentives and guidance to the serbian government.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 country report by david mcallister was adopted by the european parliament as a balanced, realistic and objective document. serbia has taken important steps in the past year, which have opened the first negotiating chapters. the report highlights the achievements so far in regional cooperation and in dealing with the migrant crisis, but also points to shortcomings, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, freedom of expression and media, corruption and organised crime. in the last year, serbia has produced many promising laws and action plans, the implementation of which is crucial, not only for the opening of negotiations but also for the citizens of serbia to receive a european-level rule of law as soon as possible. this is particularly important for national minority communities, including the former hungarian community. this report seeks to provide further incentives and guidance to the serbian government.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 country report by david mcallister was adopted by the european parliament as a balanced, realistic and objective document. serbia has taken important steps in the past year, which have opened the first negotiating chapters. the report highlights the achievements so far in regional cooperation and in dealing with the migrant crisis, but also points to shortcomings, particularly in the areas of freedom of expression and media, the rule of law, corruption and organised crime. in serbia, many promising laws and action plans have been drawn up over the past year, the implementation of which is crucial, not only because of the opening of negotiating chapters, but also to ensure that serbian citizens are granted a european-level rule of law as soon as possible. this is particularly important for national minority communities, including the former hungarian community. this report seeks to provide further incentives and guidance to the serbian government.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 country report by david mcallister was adopted by the european parliament as a balanced, realistic and objective document. serbia has taken important steps in the past year, which have opened the first negotiating chapters. the report highlights the achievements so far in regional cooperation and in dealing with the migrant crisis, but also points to shortcomings, particularly in the areas of freedom of expression and media, the rule of law, corruption and organised crime. in serbia, many promising laws and action plans have been drawn up over the past year, the implementation of which is crucial, not only for the opening of negotiating chapters, but also for the citizens of serbia to receive a european-level rule of law as soon as possible. this is particularly important for national minority communities, including the former hungarian community. this report seeks to provide further incentives and guidance to the serbian government.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 serbia progress report welcomes serbia's continued commitment to the european integration process and its significant progress in this direction. the document stresses that serious and sustainable progress is not possible without the establishment of the rule of law. it states that the cultural diversity of vojvodina contributes to the identity of serbia. it also calls on the serbian authorities to ensure the consistent implementation of legislation on the protection of minorities throughout the country, including in the areas of education, the use of languages, representation in public administration and access to media and church services in minority languages. given that serbia is at the forefront of hungarian national, neighbourhood and security policy, and in defence of the interests of the hungarian people in the past, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ serbia has submitted its application for membership of the european union and the european council decided on 28 june 2013 to open accession negotiations with serbia. on 10 november 2015, the commission published its 2015 report on serbia, which took stock of the progress made by serbia in the area of european integration and assessed its efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria and the stabilisation and association process conditionality. the draft resolution by the committee on foreign affairs proposes that parliament should welcome the opening of negotiations, the preparations made by serbia to start accession negotiations, and the progress made by serbia in the various fields. it also suggested that parliament draw attention to further efforts to be made in the areas of the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for and protection of minorities, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, and energy, environment and transport. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution adopting the report, given my firm belief that serbia is a key partner for the eu, the stability of the western balkans, our economic and infrastructural links and, following the dramatic developments of recent times, also in the management of the wave of migration to europe. this decision therefore serves an important and concrete european interest in that the european parliament confirms in a positive and encouraging way the progress made so far in the serbian reform process, the steps taken towards normalisation with kosovo, which allowed accession negotiations to begin at the end of last year. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to vote in elections in serbia, and for the eu to take action to ensure that the elections are held in a democratic manner. i hope that the clear position of the ep will also lead the european commission to finally recognise that the case of serbia is the best example of the mistake made in putting the enlargement of the eu as the final item in the commission's five-year programme, since it is clear that the gradual continuation of the accession process is always a renewed, topical and concrete interest for the union and for europe as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 serbia progress report welcomes serbia's continued commitment to the european integration process and its significant progress in this direction. the document stresses that serious and sustainable progress is not possible without the establishment of the rule of law. it states that the cultural diversity of vojvodina contributes to the identity of serbia. it also calls on the serbian authorities to ensure the consistent implementation of legislation on the protection of minorities throughout the country, including in the areas of education, the use of languages, representation in public administration and access to media and church services in minority languages. given that serbia is at the forefront of hungarian national, neighbourhood and security policy, and in defence of the interests of the hungarian people in the past, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 28 june 2013, the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia. the first intergovernmental conference took place on 21 january 2014. the review was completed in march 2015. in its 2015 report on serbia, the commission reported on the progress made by serbia in european integration and assessed its efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria and the stabilisation and association process conditionality. the commission has adopted a new approach to reporting, which provides much clearer guidance to the countries concerned on what they should focus on. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on kosovo's european integration process welcomes the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo on 27 october 2015, which prepares kosovo for eu integration and provides a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. it is concerned, however, that no substantial progress has been made in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime. the document encourages the five member states that have not yet done so to recognise kosovo, in the belief that this will further facilitate the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina. given that the report stresses that kosovo should close itself to the union in all respects, respect human rights and, above all, guarantee the rights of the serb community living in its territory, which it rightly demanded from the serb state of that time in its previous status as a minority, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on kosovo's european integration process welcomes the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo on 27 october 2015, which prepares kosovo for eu integration and provides a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. it is concerned, however, that no substantial progress has been made in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime. given that the report stresses that kosovo should close itself to the union in all respects, respect human rights and, above all, guarantee the rights of the serb community living on its territory, which it rightly demanded from the serb state of that time in its previous status as a minority, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on kosovo's european integration process welcomes the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo on 27 october 2015, which prepares kosovo for eu integration and provides a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. it is concerned, however, that no substantial progress has been made in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime. the document encourages the five member states that have not yet done so to recognise kosovo, in the belief that this will further facilitate the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina. given that the report stresses that kosovo should close itself to the union in all respects, respect human rights and, above all, guarantee the rights of the serb community living on its territory, which it rightly demanded from the serb state of that time in its previous status as a minority, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on kosovo's european integration process welcomes the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo on 27 october 2015, which prepares kosovo for eu integration and provides a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. it is concerned, however, that no substantial progress has been made in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime. the document encourages the five member states that have not yet done so to recognise kosovo, in the belief that this will further facilitate the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina. given that the report stresses that kosovo should close itself to the union in all respects, respect human rights and, above all, guarantee the rights of the serb community living on its territory, which it rightly demanded from the serb state of that time in its previous status as a minority, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo was signed on 27 october 2015 and ratified by the national assembly of kosovo on 2 november 2015. on 10 november 2015, the european commission published its report on the results achieved by kosovo in 2015. in its motion for a resolution, the committee on foreign affairs proposes that parliament should, inter alia, welcome the signing and swift ratification of the agreement, the outcome of the process of normalization of relations between serbia and kosovo, the work of the kosovo authorities to put an end to the irregular migration trend that began in early 2015, the adoption of the human rights package, the law on protection against discrimination and gender equality, and the intensification of efforts to combat terrorism. it also proposes that parliament express its concern at the weakness of political will to effectively involve civil society, the lack of progress in the area of freedom of expression and media freedom, the high level of corruption and organised crime, the high level of unemployment, particularly among women and young people, and the fragile situation of kosovo's energy supply. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the report on kosovo's european integration process welcomes the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo on 27 october 2015, which prepares kosovo for eu integration and provides a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. it is concerned, however, that no substantial progress has been made in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime. the document encourages the five member states that have not yet done so to recognise kosovo, in the belief that this will further facilitate the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina. given that the report stresses that kosovo should close itself to the union in all respects, respect human rights and, above all, guarantee the rights of the serb community living in its territory, which it rightly demanded from the serb state of that time in its previous status as a minority, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of a report presenting and assessing the state of kosovo's european integration process, given that recent developments, such as the refugee crisis along the eu's southern borders, have strongly demonstrated that the eu has an important and direct interest in the european integration of the western balkan countries, including an independent, democratic kosovo in normalized relations with its neighbours. i believe that this process, including parliament's active support for the effective implementation of the association agreement with kosovo, provides the basis for the ep to continue to monitor closely and to call on the pristina leadership to address any shortcomings in the rule of law and democracy, and in particular the continuing political violence, as soon as possible. the decision is clearly in favour of maintaining and strengthening kosovo's european perspective. i hope that this will help to highlight the fact that the effectiveness of the eu's engagement in the western balkans in this area is being undermined by the fact that five member states have still not recognised the independent state of kosovo. the report and the parliamentary debate both indicated that the credibility of the eu's enlargement policy also depends on the member states finally lifting the historically and politically obviously outdated and pointless blockade against this important partner.
in writing. ‒ the report on kosovo's european integration process welcomes the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo on 27 october 2015, which prepares kosovo for eu integration and provides a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. it is concerned, however, that no substantial progress has been made in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime. the document encourages the five member states that have not yet done so to recognise kosovo, in the belief that this will further facilitate the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina. given that the report stresses that kosovo should close itself to the union in all respects, respect human rights and, above all, guarantee the rights of the serb community living on its territory, which it rightly demanded from the serb state of that time in its previous status as a minority, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ 110 of the 193 un member states, including 23 of the 28 eu member states, recognise kosovo's independence. the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement was signed on 27 october 2015 and ratified by the national assembly of kosovo on 2 november 2015. the european parliament will give its consent to the agreement in january 2016. i voted in favour of the related document.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution on the subject was tabled by the groups of the ecr, alde, verts/ale, ppe, s&d, enf, gue/ngl and efdd. among them, the five groups mentioned above agreed on a compromise draft. i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report and the course of action it sets out, in the knowledge that it directly affects the interests of the european union and its member states in several respects. the report highlights the importance of the eu's role in monitoring and influencing the war and humanitarian situation in libya, which is now one of the main sources of migration to europe, a terrorist threat, and a significant contributor to the destabilisation of the entire mediterranean region, while parts of libya have become a base for international arms trafficking and human smuggling. i am confident that with this resolution the european parliament will also contribute to ensuring that the peace plan drawn up under the auspices of the un in december 2015 receives at least a second round of support from the libyan parties and from parliament. i agree that the next period will focus on the establishment of state and institutional functioning, in which the eu can play a significant role. i believe that our resolution rightly calls on the governments of the eu member states to continue their efforts to promote the libyan peace process and the fight against terrorism in coordination with the work of the eeas and the high representative and to avoid any kind of political action.
in writing. ‒ under the regime of dictator gaddafi, libya had the largest arsenal of weapons in the region, which after the fall fell into the hands of arms traffickers and terrorists. the events that followed the arab spring deserve order and attention. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ the proposal submitted by the committee on regional development proposes that parliament draw the attention of the commission, the member states and regional and local authorities to the disadvantageous situation of islands belonging to the territory of the european union. this disadvantage is present in areas such as depopulation trends, transport system, additional costs of energy supply and market access, connections via sea routes, access to ports and problems of air transport, access to the digital single market, education, migration. recommends that the addressees be invited to develop strategies and take measures that will greatly facilitate the development of island regions and overcome these handicaps. i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has had a dramatic impact on the national and regional budgets of many member states by limiting the available funding in a number of sectors and leading to a 20% decline in public investment. the eu islands are also peripheral regions located on the eu's external borders and are particularly exposed to the current challenges facing europe, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and, especially for the southern states, migration flows. i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ i would like to emphasise the key role of local and regional authorities in implementing eu strategies, while recognising the role of a wide range of stakeholders from member states' community groups. i also believe that the proximity of these authorities to citizens and the diversity of governance at local and regional level are valuable for the eu. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the committee on regional development proposes that parliament's resolution should draw attention to the key role of local and regional authorities in implementing eu strategies, the importance of community-led local development initiatives and the principle of multi-level governance, which supports the eu's fundamental political objectives of economic growth, social progress and sustainable development, and strengthens the eu's democratic dimension and enhances the effectiveness of its political action. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion because i believe that local and regional authorities have an important role to play in the formulation and implementation of development strategies. i have also reiterated this view during the debate on this subject, and i have stressed that party politics should be excluded from the allocation of development funds. i also think this is important because 80-95% of investments in hungary are currently supported by the european union, but the efficiency of development programmes is low. this ultimately contributes to the increase of corruption, such as the practice of overcharging projects. i agree that the eu's cohesion policy remains the main investment tool in this programming period, covering all regions of the eu and offering opportunities for sustainable growth and bottom-up development. i believe that the efsi should stimulate growth and job creation. but this also requires ensuring synergies and complementarities between the relevant programmes and giving room to community-led local development initiatives. projects with high social, economic and other added value should be targeted, contributing to sustainable and long-term inclusive growth and economic, social and territorial cohesion. of course, we must not forget the declining regions, nor the consolidation of the countryside.
in writing. ‒ the eu's cohesion policy remains the main investment instrument in the 2014-2020 programming period, covering all eu regions and offering the opportunity to create a more bottom-up process towards sustainable growth, supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, improving the quality of life of citizens and creating solidarity and fostering increased development in eu regions. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the groups of the ecr, gue/ngl, verts/ale, alde, s&d, ppe and efdd. six of the seven groups, with the exception of the ecr, agreed on a compromise draft. i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it is important for the european parliament to speak out on one of the most serious humanitarian disasters of our time and to use its international weight towards saudi arabia and other parties to the conflict to improve the situation. i consider it urgent that the maritime blockade be lifted and that hostilities cease throughout yemen in order to allow humanitarian aid to reach its destination without hindrance. the situation is particularly worrying because of the high number of children among the victims and the serious threats to the safety of international aid workers. while agreeing that international efforts to resolve the situation in yemen should be pursued under the auspices of the un, i also took into account the fact that this issue also entails specific responsibilities for eu member states, in particular with regard to compliance and enforcement of the rules on restricting the flow of arms into the region. i believe that this aspect will have to be closely monitored by the european parliament in the future.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur finds that the current conflict in yemen is due to the failure of successive governments to meet the democratic, economic and social aspirations of the yemeni people, thereby exacerbating the discontent and division that has led to the current violence. in the north of yemen, heavy ground clashes, airstrikes and the combined effects of the land, sea and air blockade have had devastating consequences for the country. the ongoing conflict has created a severe humanitarian crisis affecting 80% of yemen's population of 26 million. in the vote on this, i supported the s&d group's position.
to be honest, i'm actually tired of all the different resolutions on the middle east with isis. having been to the area several times, and the discrepancy between the urgency of the action and our pace is simply outrageous, but i can say that with the decision that has been adopted today, we have been given a chance. we have been given a chance in europe to actually act and actually do what is needed. what's this about? europe has been reluctant to this day to acknowledge that we have a special responsibility for christian and other persecuted minorities, religious minorities. finally, after years of delay, we're starting to acknowledge that. you know one thing. the christian and other religious minorities look to europe, and only to us. it's not a hand to be refused. it's just not human.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the verts/ale, ecr, gue/ngl, alde, s&d, ppe and efdd groups. six of the seven groups, with the exception of gue/ngl, agreed on a compromise draft. i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it is a clear statement by the european parliament to protect religious minorities, one of the most significant targets of the particularly vicious and in many cases genocidal violence represented by isis. i welcome the fact that the resolution also acknowledges that the violent activities of this terrorist organisation cannot be stopped by political and diplomatic means alone and points out the responsibility of the international community to intervene effectively by military means. the european parliament also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the fight against terrorism. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised.
in writing. ‒ on the night of 6 august 2014, more than 150 000 christians fled the incursion of the so-called isis/daesh into mosul, karakosh and other villages in the nineveh plain. all their possessions were taken and they have since been living far from home in precarious conditions in northern iraq. the so-called isis/da'esh captured those who could not escape from mosul and the nineveh plains, and forced non-muslim women and children into slavery, some of whom were sold, while others were brutally murdered. in the vote on this, i supported the s&d group's position.
madam secretary, mr. president, i have to go. the danube and adriatic macro-regions are important mechanisms for achieving synergies in these regions. this is particularly important in the field of transport, including rail transport. these macro-regions are crossed by very important ten-t routes, but the existing transport networks are fragmented and mostly concentrated in one country or region. expansion of cross-border railway lines, better coordination of timetables and modernisation of equipment would be necessary. the system of macro-regions can be of great help in this. however, it is important to note that these macro-regions also include countries that are not yet full eu members. the ten-t network has expanded beyond the eu member states to include the candidate countries, thanks to the negotiations in vienna last summer. this has finally resulted in a map of europe covering the entire continent. this could also improve the competitiveness of the danube and adriatic macro-region and reduce its isolation from the rest of europe. however, in order to achieve positive logistical and economic effects on transport throughout the entire length of the corridors and to create the so-called corridor effect, it is necessary to rethink the funding mechanisms provided by the eu. the different legal and financial status of the candidate countries means that the synergy between the macro-regions cannot be fully exploited and that, despite all goodwill, the bottlenecks remain. i would therefore urge the commission to create the right legal and financial backdrop for better integration of the candidate countries in the ten-t corridor review. we in the european people's party want to help the commission to formulate solutions that are realistic, that are in line with the possibilities, but that allow for further development.
it's only fair to repeat what we're talking about. the danube region covers practically 1/5 of the current territory of the european union and in fact 1/5 of the population of the european union lives in this region. although this part was previously part of another great integration, not least when the railway was first developed in europe, and even 100 to 150 years ago, the railway itself meant two things to the people living here: sustainability and modernity. it's no different today. how history has torn this region apart, where it has scattered the integrated economy of its time, is obviously a matter for historians, but if we want to rebuild europe, we must pay particular attention to this. i would also like to point out that of the 14 countries in the region, only nine are members of the european union, and that is why there are two countries involved in the european partnership, ukraine and moldova. you will be surprised, my colleagues, but there are still european-style racetracks in ukraine, which are not used much anymore, of course, because the wide-track is the fashion, but it can be rebuilt. it can be rebuilt, as can the whole region. as for the essence of the projects, i think it would be very, very important, even exemplary, to create intermodality, and on top of that, even environmental aspects i think deserve special attention, they should be electrified.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you very much for your contribution. this lively debate reflects once again the importance and necessity of quality rail connections for the danube and adriatic-ionian strategies as well as for the internal market. i'd like to make a few clarifications. first of all, with the macro-regions, you know very well that they started with the condition that there were no new institutions, no new legislation and no additional money. so, basically, these regions are putting all their resources together to respond to common challenges that don't stop at state borders. the commission has a coordinating role, but the programmes and projects must come from the regions and member states involved. neither we in brussels nor you here in strasbourg can draw up plans. joint projects are very important. i am a big supporter of these macro-regions, because first of all, as you have also pointed out, they bring together eu member states with non-eu countries, and so far, they are the only instruments through which we can bring together eu member states and non-eu countries and respond to common challenges. for example, the danube strategy covers fourteen countries: nine member states and five non-member states. as i have said, the commission considers that rail infrastructure in this region is inefficient and in many cases even lacking. i share your opinion. i was in sarajevo. i have to go back to vienna or brussels so i can go to sarajevo from bucharest, but i still hope you'll come to romania. the commission notes that the measure is not imputable to the state and that the measure is imputable to the state. unfortunately, national authorities do not always give priority to this issue and the danube action plan calls on member states - and i take this opportunity to renew this call - to strengthen transport infrastructure and extend public transport lines at the border. i think this is very important, especially in rural areas, given that the population in this region, in rural areas, is much larger than in other parts of the european union. the question of river transport, which is also relevant to the danube strategy, was the subject of a wide-ranging debate in ulm, where the annual conference on the danube strategy was held. i think it is very important to stress that connectivity in general and the railway, as well as inland waterway transport, are top priorities in the danube strategy, but also in the adriatic-ionian strategy. for example, i personally had a mediating role, bringing together the transport ministers of romania and bulgaria. the most serious problems with navigability are in this area, because of the low level of the danube at certain times of the year, and we tried to mediate, to bring the two ministers together, because it is enough that one metre cannot be navigated between romania and bulgaria, and then the whole chain, from germany to the black sea (practically, all activities), is blocked. so from this point of view, i hope that the two countries take an important step to solve this airworthiness problem. the adriatic-ionian region covers eight countries: four member states and four non-member states of the european union. i'll be happy to go to the launch of this strategy in dubrovnik in may. the railway services in this region are certainly in a better state than those in the danube region. they can improve and become more competitive. there are rehabilitation projects in the adriatic-ionian macro-region and the effort and investment required must indeed approach normal ten-t standards. we must also take into account the fact that, unfortunately, statistics show that passenger traffic is declining, especially in terms of navigability on rivers. i would like to highlight two more things. there are two key aspects: on the one hand, we need everyone to be prepared to cooperate actively, as i said, and across borders, establishing close links with neighbouring countries and regions. on the other hand, we need strong political will to implement the necessary reforms and thus facilitate the critical mass of investment that will enable public rail services to meet the needs of the population. therefore, in our view, we now have all the instruments in place and i would of course like to take this opportunity to encourage all stakeholders to make the best use of them to enhance the role of public rail services in these regions. the commission wants to work with the european parliament to make progress on these issues for the benefit of citizens, the business community and, by implication, the european union as a whole. i'm sorry the lady left. i was disturbed by this reference to the european commission's indifference to the european south. i, personally, have been to italy twice. we unlocked operational programs that were blocked, especially in campania, sicily, calabria. when i took up my post as european commissioner, all the analyses showed that these operational programmes would not be able to be unlocked, and i succeeded in doing so. in naples, together with minister delrio, we launched the new bari-naples railway line and we hope to be able to inaugurate it during our term of office. i was very happy that italy could be linked not only from north to south, but also horizontally, and i think that's a very important thing. i don't want to get into this controversy about romania. i just want to say that the commission does not choose which railway priorities and lines are included in the national strategies, because the transport master plans represent the national strategies. whether it is romania or italy, the european commission provides support through our services, through permanent consultations throughout the stages of the implementation of the master plans, but at the same time, of course, there is also the right of governments to determine what these priorities are. my hope is that as they implement them, as needed, national governments will have the flexibility to respond to the needs of their citizens.
in writing. the adriatic-danube macro-region is a major european transit route, so the development of environmentally friendly transport routes is of prime interest, but particular attention should be paid to ensuring that this objective does not overshadow the nature conservation aspects, which are also a priority. the danube, which is the region's water feature and also its ecological conditions as a green corridor and aquatic habitat, is traditionally the region's most important shipping route. at the same time, the development of shipping poses a serious threat, as it threatens to destroy the most valuable ecosystems: the closure of estuaries, the construction of dams, dredging, navigation aids and protective structures, among others, are the main threats to the river's aquatic habitats, according to a report by the european court of auditors. moreover, since the implementation of the danube strategy, the development of the transport corridor is typically supported by eu funding there is a strong possibility that the destruction of irreplaceable natural resources is financed unintentionally by the eu itself. experience so far has shown that the natura 2000 network of sites, the birds and habitats directives have proved to be effective tools for conserving biodiversity and protecting habitats. i believe it is very important to coordinate european objectives, in this case to prevent development from being achieved through habitat erosion. in the context of environmentally friendly shipping development, ships should be adapted to the river and not the other way around: the danube should remain a living water, not a canal.
it is in everyone's interest that the united kingdom remains part of the european union. yet, the text of the agreement leaves much to be desired. first of all, because of the cuts to social benefits, which are clearly discriminatory. it is bitter because we know that the shameful campaign against the workers of eastern europe was launched by mr farage and his far-right cronies. it's bitter to the taste of the ham, because we know that poles, hungarians and others are not going to work in the uk for welfare benefits, but because they don't have jobs at home. no amount of social security can compensate these people for not being able to stroke their children's heads at night. it is bitter because once again we are making those who are most in need pay the price of conflict. the cuts in social benefits are primarily for the working poor. today, however, it seems that this is the europe we live in. when conflicts arise, the first solution that comes to mind is to cut some of the social spending. it's no different this time. already some member states are considering whether they should follow suit. i'm fighting for a europe that doesn't rely on the abolition of social benefits.
quoting from the document adopted at the summit: the relationship between the united kingdom and the union, member states' sovereignty. member states take note of the united kingdom's lack of commitment to further political integration with the european union. it will be incorporated into the treaties when they are next amended to make clear that references to the greatest possible unity among the peoples of europe do not apply to the united kingdom. this is a very important provision, and it's not just symbolic. in subsequent legislation, all legislation which points towards closer integration will not apply to the united kingdom. however, this raises the question of discrimination, which is a european value. the same possibility should be provided for in the treaties for other countries interested in looser cooperation. i trust the hungarian government will seize this opportunity as soon as possible.
madam president, on a point of order, i signed up for catch-the-eye at the very beginning of this afternoon, and i wonder what the principle of selection was. the other thing is, what would happen in this chamber if once, more than, say, 50 people out of the 750-something showed up, if those couple of dozen of us who appear have no chance at all of speaking?
in writing. one important element of the so-called new agreement with the uk contained in the council conclusions is the significant reduction in access to uk welfare schemes for eastern european workers, despite all available studies and surveys showing that those concerned, who are younger and work at a higher rate than the uk average, contribute substantially more to uk welfare schemes through their contributions than they take out of them. so there's no welfare parasitism, there's actually net contributors to the system. i think it's unacceptable that, moving towards the least resistance, the british are being paid to stay in hungary, even if the hungarian government has assisted in this. but there's another problem. the majority of european decision-makers, including apparently a significant number of meps, believe that accepting the special treatment and the british demand for exceptions is the price we now have to pay to keep the eu together. it is much more likely that this is the big step towards disintegration, the break-up of the union. what's the message of this? member states can blackmail freely, and they will get what they want, because the eu has neither the strength nor the will to resist. and the member states understand. the deal with the british is a huge nail in the coffin of integration. the deal is not the solution, it's part of the problem.
in writing. national sovereignty is a 19th century idea that is obsolete in the 21st century. the union's development path of more than half a century is heading towards a federal state structure, the suspension of which, the referral of eu competences back to the national level, is harmful to europe and hungary. if we do not want to sink into mediocrity, the only way forward for europe is deeper political and economic integration. no single eu member state can compete with china or the usa. let us not forget that germany, europe's largest member state, is only the equivalent of china's fifth largest province in terms of population. i believe that the european union is not just an economic community but also a community of values and destiny. i therefore reject initiatives which reduce european integration to a trade union. a worker who works fairly and who complies with national and eu rules shall not be discriminated against in respect of social benefits. i am still convinced that the capacity of a hungary of ten million people to promote its interests will not be enhanced by the strengthening of nation states, but on the contrary by the creation of a federal europe of 500 million people, the creation of the united states of europe.
in writing. i understand the relief that can be felt from the reports of the commission and the eit president on the decisions on the british question, but i do not share the satisfaction, let alone the joy. this forced package of decisions could slow down, stop and destroy the whole of european construction in important areas, and destroy many of the results achieved so far. moreover, this demotivates pro-eu political and civil forces and gives a blood-eye to the destructive ones (like orbán); this effect could be valid even if the exceptions were not to be implemented due to the possible unwanted negative result of the uk referendum. the exceptions that ensure the british's exclusion from the increasingly close union lack all the reflection in community decision-making and influence. the communication issued does not even hint at how the british will be able to achieve their independence in voting, appointment to office, budgetary and other ratios and quotas in the areas most important for deepening political union - beyond the eurogroup and schengen, for example, in the eeas and in social and labour matters. failure to do so would seriously undermine the interests of the other member states and the fundamental principles on which the eu operates. as a socialist, i am particularly hurt that we are trying to solve the domestic problems of a right-wing british government - largely of its own making - at the expense of workers in other countries, with social justice, solidarity and other core european values as the final mark.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. i personally believe that no economic growth or budgetary balance can be worth a serious decline in social rights. i ask you, do you think this deal was worth the sacrifice of a whole bunch of social rights for england to stay in europe?
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i agree with you that we should not only promote mobility between countries, but that it would also make sense to achieve something at regional level with eures. but we also run into the problem of not having all 24 languages at the same time. so in many cases, a person at home may be at a disadvantage compared with a foreign worker. how would you think of dealing with this problem?
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, first of all i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr becker, my colleagues, our shadows, and obviously the representatives of the luxembourg presidency. we need to thank all of them because basically, as my colleague mr simon has already mentioned, their constructive attitude and benevolent flexibility meant that we were able to first work out the compromises in parliament and then come to the reasonably early reading agreement which is in front of us. believe me, i come from a member state called hungary. i can value flexibility and willingness to compromise in politics. i do not want to claim any specific merit for the greens, but i would like to highlight two things that i think we have been slightly instrumental in putting into the legislation. we believe that eures advisers should play an important role, providing personalised support to jobseekers, in order to ensure that they can make informed decisions when looking for, or taking up, a job abroad. we also have to modify and improve the original text to ensure that all users have equal access to the services without discrimination, and that data protection provisions are observed. thank you very much for your attention and for the flexibility which i mentioned before.
in the european union, there are 8 million workers who are not working in their own country and 25 million unemployed. the eures employment and mobility portal, whose reform we are about to decide on, can also help them in their job search, but let us ask ourselves: what is the eu single market like in this area? we can only talk about fair labour markets and mobility if we reduce the huge income gaps between the periphery and the centre. for example, in hungary, a shopkeeper earns 350 euros a month, and in neighboring austria, 1200 euros a month, in the same chain. people from central and eastern europe are not going to western europe in large numbers to work because they are self-conscious citizens of the eu, but because they are driven by economic constraints to leave their homeland.
in writing. the free choice of employment within the union is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union. every day, some 1.1 million eu citizens cross the border to work in a neighbouring country. in addition, in 2013, some 7 million european citizens lived and worked in other member states. the high unemployment rates in some regions of europe have led to the recognition of the need to strengthen labour mobility within the union. this will contribute to the development of a european labour market with a high level of employment, as the rate of labour mobility within the union of 0,29% is relatively low in relation to the size of the labour market and the active population of the eu. this regulation aims to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers/employers by creating the largest database of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles. i support the inclusion of apprenticeships and traineeships in the europe-wide network. i propose to introduce an appropriate exchange of general information on mobility within the union in the field of apprenticeships and traineeships, which should be recognised in the same way as diplomas awarded by the member states' mainstream education systems. the reform should enable public employment services to lay the foundations for closer cooperation with education and training institutions, in particular in the field of continuing training, extending this to those over 40 years of age, allowing the use of information and communication technologies.
in writing. the eures network and employment mobility portal, which is now more than two decades old, has become even more important in the light of the crisis, as mobility within the union opens up new employment opportunities and can thus contribute to reducing unemployment. the problem of mass unemployment in some parts of the union can be solved by the mobility of workers. eures supports workers and employers in exploiting the opportunities offered by the principle of free movement of persons. eures and the public employment services in the member states consider it their mission to contribute to the balance of supply and demand in the labour market and to provide employers, workers and recruitment agencies with easy access to the local, national and european labour markets. the report also mentions several points aimed at increasing the effectiveness of eures, while stressing that employment policies are a matter for the member states. most of the proposals mentioned in the presentation (e.g. to extend eures to include traineeship opportunities, to provide all jobseekers with full information on employment conditions in the country where the job is located, to make the eures platform as user-friendly as possible) contain valuable ideas that can effectively contribute to reducing unemployment in the union.
in writing. i consider the right to free choice of employment within the union to be an integral part of the right to free movement, one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union, which is an important element of eu citizenship, which has been put at risk by the current migrant crisis. today, there are 23 million unemployed in the eu, and one in five young people is out of work. despite rumours to the contrary, the mobility of eu workers within the union is low compared to the size of the labour market and the active population of the eu, and even compared to its larger competitors (the usa, japan) the eu-27 mobility rate is only 0.29%. the regulation aims to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers and employers, while respecting the competences of the member states in respect of labour market regulation, which remains a national competence. my view is that the employment problem should not be reduced by adding more non-eu and particularly unskilled immigrants, but by strengthening the free movement of eu citizens. in this context, i believe that, as regards the filling of vacant posts, the member states and the commission should ensure that priority is given to nationals of the member states of the union in order to ensure that the principle of union preference is also applied.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the table in parliament aims to improve workers' access to services to support labour mobility within the eu, thereby promoting equitable mobility and ensuring better access to employment opportunities across the union. the main tool for this is the european employment services (eures) network of some 900 counsellors. however, it is clear that this instrument in its current form is not able to encourage further equitable mobility patterns, in particular due to the size of the union workforce and the nature of the challenges of the current economic situation. the proposal provides an answer to this, but it must also be noted that, in addition to encouraging labour mobility, we must also provide support for those who have left their country of origin for economic reasons and are engaged in work which is sometimes underpaid and unfair in relation to their qualifications. if there is an eu resource to facilitate the mobility of european citizens, there must also be a way to help those who want to get back to thriving in their home countries.
in writing. i believe it is important to show solidarity with tunisia and to use our existing instruments to help stabilise the economy and democratic political system of the north african country. international terrorism poses a serious threat to the country and discourages tourists, without whom tunisia's economy could collapse. let us consider the aftermath of the terrible attack in sousse last year. the trade preference granted to assist tunisian olive oil producers is therefore to some extent justified. but we must show at least as much solidarity with european union producers. the exemption granted by the commission for an additional 35 000 tonnes of olive oil must not be allowed to become a routine measure. i therefore ask that, in accordance with the proposal of the spanish and italian ppe members, only monthly import licences be issued for the import of this additional quantity, and that the duty-free period not be extended.
it's a two-card draw. i agree with the points you have made, but i would like to ask a question. how much do you think coordinated policies are really justified when, for example, in my country, hungary, the number of people with hepatitis c jumped by 50% because the government ended the free needle exchange program. that's a pretty scattered policy.
in writing. the world of drugs is a rapidly changing one, so it is important that international regulation keeps pace with the unfortunate developments in the field and that information on new chemicals needed to produce drugs is essential for prevention purposes. the united nations general assembly's special session on drugs will be a major milestone in this fight. i welcome you to this special roundtable on drugs and human rights, youth, women, children and communities. it is vital to keep up with the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the distribution of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified to exploit legal loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. the fight against drugs can only be tackled in an integrated way: prevention, rehabilitation and law enforcement are also essential. every effort should be made to ensure that young people, teachers and parents are properly informed. and drug users need to be helped to overcome their addiction, thereby reducing the negative social, economic and public health impacts of drugs. the authorities should also be provided with the appropriate tools to be able to act effectively in the fight against drugs at international level.
the ancient communities of marriage and family, which were part of the divine order of creation, have been in a permanent crisis. this recognition has prompted the romanian ngo coalition for the family to initiate a constitutional amendment stating that the family is based on a marriage between a man and a woman who have voluntarily agreed to marry. we must not allow the natural order of marriage and the family, which is the basis of society and human existence, to be undermined by the demagogy of human rights, by the false reference to gender equality or human dignity. on the january family day in rome, stand with tens of thousands of protesters to defend our colleagues, our families, our children and our healthy european society.
it's another beautiful morning here in brussels, in the plenary of the european parliament. the dynamics and atmosphere are the same as ever, this time with the european ombudsman presenting his annual report. of course, he has no legal training, so that his ideological clarity is not disturbed by some professional interference. out of the 750 or so meps, about 25 are present, and they are having a lively discussion about how to make the european union more democratic, how to make it more popular with citizens, especially on the issues of asylum and migration. i would like to thank the ombudsman and the members of the european parliament for their support. i have an idea. what if you heard the voices of european citizens who say that we sympathize with the unfortunate people, the poor, the destitute, the refugees from the wars that the western world has caused, but we can't take any more refugees, stop the flow of migration, and that democracy is when you make the right decisions. what do you do compared to that? they ignore the fact that people who defend their country, who defend their homeland, are being waterboarded in supposedly democratic european countries. shame on you. and i advise the citizens of europe to achieve by exercising their human rights, by real democracy, and if necessary by fighting what we hungarians have achieved, that there will be a referendum on this issue. now we're finally teaching you about democracy and human rights.
please, stop thinking. i hope it wasn't too hard talking to the decorative cigarette.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there has been a lot of talk here, including some very nasty accusations about who is corrupt, member states, the commission, smugglers, everyone, and i, as a smoker, am paying for it. but i would like to ask you, if things are not working so well, do you agree that negotiations should henceforth be conducted only in public? like on video.
i myself join those who say that these agreements should be very much reconsidered and that they should not be renewed in any way in their present form. i kind of feel like this whole situation is that the profits of the tobacco companies are skyrocketing, the revenues of the smugglers are skyrocketing, and even though there are losses and tax losses for the states, for the governments, ultimately, the revenues of the governments are skyrocketing, and somewhere, the whole thing is paid for by society, smokers, non-smokers, both with their health or with the taxes they pay. i therefore urge that the entry of products from third countries in uncontrolled quantities and quality be prevented at all costs. this is not a matter of dealing with companies, and in general, national governments need to be much more stringent. i feel like i'm missing a lot of things. i would urge the commission to clarify these concerns.
the vice president will be answering a very important question, and i ask my colleagues to listen and remain silent while this is happening. madam vice president, it's an important issue, with many proposals, few supportive opinions, many opposing opinions, and my colleagues consider it a deficit. they want an independent tracking system. you have the floor. ( catch the eye procedure completed)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place at the next meeting. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
madam president, i am terribly sorry but people are coming and going in this chamber right now and there is a lot of talking going on, like in a cafeteria. it is an abuse and an insult against our voters, against our citizens, that we have to give speeches in this environment. please make sure that people calm down, keep silent and then we can talk. i do not even know which explanation of vote is going on because the table does not show it, so please make sure that we can see what is going on and that we can also hear, because at this point in time i cannot hear anything and i cannot see anything.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system of document service between the signatory countries. it is important to note that the convention is a cross-border service which only applies to documents coming from or going to third countries. twenty-six of the 28 member states have already applied the convention and the two remaining member states, malta and austria, have also expressed their wish to join. since the convention has proved useful, it is in the common interest that the two member states in question should have a simple procedure for the cross-border service of documents in third countries. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of the accession of the two member states to the hague convention.
in writing. the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby official documents may be served in another state party. it should be noted that the convention applies only to the cross-border service of official documents originating in or sent to third countries: regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters applies to the cross-border service of official documents within the european union. the convention has already been applied by 26 of the 28 member states. the remaining two member states, austria and malta, also indicated their intention to join. the convention does not allow for the accession of international organisations. however, following the adoption of union legislation on the cross-border service of documents, the union acquired exclusive external competence in this matter under article 3 (2) tfeu. this approach was confirmed by the court in its opinion of 1/13. on that basis, the union should authorise those member states to act on its behalf with a view to acceding to the convention. it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states in question to have a uniform system for the uniform service of documents in their cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby official documents may be served in another state party. it should be noted that the convention applies only to the cross-border service of official documents originating in or sent to third countries: regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters applies to the cross-border service of official documents within the european union. the convention has already been applied by 26 of the 28 member states. the remaining two member states, austria and malta, also indicated their intention to join. the convention does not allow for the accession of international organisations. however, following the adoption of union legislation on the cross-border service of documents, the union acquired exclusive external competence in this matter under article 3 (2) tfeu. this approach was confirmed by the court in its opinion of 1/13. on that basis, the union should authorise those member states to act on its behalf with a view to acceding to the convention. it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states in question to have a uniform system for the uniform service of documents in their cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby official documents may be served in another state party. it should be noted that the convention applies only to the cross-border service of official documents originating in or sent to third countries: regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters applies to the cross-border service of official documents within the european union. the convention has already been applied by 26 of the 28 member states. the remaining two member states, austria and malta, also indicated their intention to join. the convention does not allow for the accession of international organisations. however, following the adoption of union legislation on the cross-border service of documents, the union acquired exclusive external competence in this matter under article 3 (2) tfeu. this approach was confirmed by the court in its opinion of 1/13. on that basis, the union should authorise those member states to act on its behalf with a view to acceding to the convention. it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states in question to have a uniform system for the uniform service of documents in their cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ 26 of the 28 member states have already applied the convention. the remaining two member states, austria and malta, also indicated their intention to join. the convention does not allow for the accession of international organisations. however, following the adoption of union legislation on the cross-border service of documents, the union acquired exclusive external competence in this matter under article 3 (2) tfeu. this approach was confirmed by the court in its opinion of 1/13. i am convinced that on this basis the union should authorise the member states concerned to act on its behalf with a view to acceding to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby official documents may be served in another state party. the convention applies only to the cross-border service of official documents originating in or sent to third countries. regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on the service in civil and commercial matters of judicial and extrajudicial documents applies to cross-border service within the european union. the convention has already been applied by 26 of the 28 member states. the remaining two member states, austria and malta, also indicated their intention to join. the convention does not allow for the accession of international organisations. however, following the adoption of union legislation on the cross-border service of documents, the union acquired exclusive external competence in this matter under article 3 (2) tfeu. this approach was confirmed by the court in its opinion of 1/13. on that basis, the union should authorise those member states to act on its behalf with a view to acceding to the convention. it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states in question to have a uniform system for the uniform service of documents in their cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby official documents may be served in another state party. it should be noted that the convention applies only to the cross-border service of official documents originating in or sent to third countries: regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters applies to the cross-border service of official documents within the european union. the convention has already been applied by 26 of the 28 member states. the remaining two member states, austria and malta, also indicated their intention to join. the convention does not allow for the accession of international organisations. however, following the adoption of union legislation on the cross-border service of documents, the union acquired exclusive external competence in this matter under article 3 (2) tfeu. this approach was confirmed by the court in its opinion of 1/13. on that basis, the union should authorise those member states to act on its behalf with a view to acceding to the convention. it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states in question to have a uniform system for the uniform service of documents in their cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 allows for service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in another state party. the convention is open to member states only, not to international organisations, including the european union. austria and malta are the last two eu member states not to apply the convention, but both have now indicated their intention to join, but under the treaty on the functioning of the european union they can only do so with the consent of the union. the council has submitted a draft decision approving the intention of the two member states to accede, but this also requires the agreement of the parliament. in its report, the committee on legal affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the draft council decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby official documents in civil and economic matters may be served in another state party. it should be noted that the convention applies only to the cross-border service of official documents originating in or sent to third countries: regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters applies to the cross-border service of official documents within the european union. the convention has already been applied by 26 of the 28 member states. the remaining two member states, austria and malta, also indicated their intention to join. the convention does not allow for the accession of international organisations. however, following the adoption of union legislation on the cross-border service of documents, the union acquired exclusive external competence in this matter under article 3 (2) tfeu. this approach was confirmed by the court in its opinion of 1/13. on that basis, the union should authorise those member states to act on its behalf with a view to acceding to the convention. it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states in question to have a uniform system for the uniform service of documents in their cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby documents may be served in another state party. the convention has already been applied by 26 of the 28 member states. the remaining two member states, austria and malta, also indicated their intention to join. since the convention has proved its usefulness in the field of crossborder service of documents and since it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states in question to have a uniform system for the uniform service of documents in their crossborder relations with third countries, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ following the european council's savings directive and in order to maintain a level playing field for economic operators, the eu and san marino signed an agreement establishing provisions equivalent to those laid down in the council directive. on 17 june 2011, the commission adopted a proposal in the context of negotiations with san marino in order to improve the eu agreements in line with the international development of the countries and to ensure that these countries continue to apply equivalent provisions. the commission reached an agreement on 13 may 2013. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement represents an important step in efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and updates the 2004 agreement which ensures that the republic of san marino applies measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of interest income on savings. the new agreement establishes an automatic exchange of information between the eu and the republic of san marino on the financial accounts of each other's residents as from 2017. the aim is to address situations where taxable persons seek to conceal income or capital representing assets for which tax has not yet been paid. i support the objective of the agreement to apply enhanced measures equivalent to the union legal framework updated in december 2014 (amending the dac2 directive on administrative cooperation) and to comply with the automatic exchange of financial account information procedures called for by the 2014 oecd global standards.
in writing. ‒ the eu and san marino agreed in 2004 that the republic would apply measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of interest income on savings. on 8 december 2015, an agreement was reached under which the two parties will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other's residents as of 2017. the purpose of the agreement is to deal with situations where taxable persons seek to conceal income or capital representing assets for which tax has not yet been paid. the council has submitted a proposal for a decision on the ratification of the agreement. in its report, the economic and monetary committee recommends that parliament approve the council's proposal. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the signature of the amendment to council directive 2003/48/ec between the european community and the republic of san marino on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. i welcome the new agreement as an important step in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud by ensuring that the republic of san marino applies measures in line with the latest eu directives in the area of taxation of interest income from savings. this agreement is exemplary in that it promotes international tax cooperation, thereby reducing the number of individuals and companies seeking to conceal income or capital representing assets for which tax has not been paid. the european parliament, including the taxe and tax2 committees, has made a serious effort to establish a fair tax system. the above convention also contributes to this by providing for the automatic exchange of information between tax authorities.
in writing. ‒ on 8 december 2015, the european union and the republic of san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement constitutes an important step in efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and updates the 2004 agreement ensuring that the republic of san marino applies measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the new agreement establishes an automatic exchange of information between the eu and the republic of san marino on the financial accounts of each other's residents as from 2017. i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ in the treaty of accession of croatia to the eu, member states introduced a simplified accession regime to facilitate croatia's accession to conventions and protocols under article 34 teu. for reasons of efficiency, the council should determine the date of entry into force of these conventions and take all necessary measures required by the conventions for the accession of the new member state (such as the authentic translation of the conventions into croatian). the council shall act on a proposal from the commission after consulting the european parliament. the report endorses the european commission's proposal. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we gave our consent to the commission recommendation to the council to allow croatia to adhere to the convention on the protection of the european communities’ financial interests. the act of 2011 concerning the conditions of accession of croatia to the european union simplified its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states: it is no longer necessary to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols. the council, in order to take a decision determining the date on which this convention will enter into force in relation to croatia and making all the adjustments required by reason of the accession of this new member state to this convention, will act on a recommendation by the commission, after consulting the european parliament. the libe committee recommended that the european parliament give its consent to the commission recommendation. as fidesz-epp we therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ annex i to the act of accession lists the conventions and protocols concerned. that list includes the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, the protocols of 27 september 1996 and 29 november 1996 and the second protocol of 19 june 1997 adopted for the purpose of establishing a common fund for the criminal law protection of the ec's financial interests under title vi of the ec treaty. the convention and its protocols of 27 september 1996 and 29 november 1996 entered into force on 17 october 2002 following ratification by the then 15 member states, the protocol of 19 june 1997 entered into force on 19 may 2009 following ratification by the then 27 member states. in order to make the adjustments required by the accession of croatia to the abovementioned convention and its protocols in accordance with article 3 (5) of the act of accession, a commission recommendation is not necessary. the commission proposes that the council adopt a decision fixing the date of entry into force of these conventions for croatia. i therefore propose, in agreement with the rapporteur, that the commission's recommendation be adopted.
in writing. ‒ the republic of croatia has undertaken in the treaty of accession to accede to all conventions and protocols concluded by member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the council shall, after consulting the parliament, adopt a decision on the date of entry into force of accession and on the necessary adjustments to the conventions to that effect. the commission has proposed to the council to bring into force the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, the protocols of 27 september 1996 and 29 november 1996 and the second protocol of 19 june 1997 in respect of croatia. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that the commission's proposal be approved by parliament. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, as it is done on the basis of the croatian act of accession. the convention aims to protect the financial interests of taxpayers in the member states by providing a harmonised legal definition of fraud and by obliging signatories to impose criminal sanctions on fraud. effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions will in any case serve the interests of croatian citizens.
in writing. ‒ the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for croatia's accession to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu. in order to make the adjustments required by the accession of croatia to the abovementioned convention and its protocols in accordance with article 3 (5) of the act of accession, a commission recommendation is not necessary. the commission proposes that the council adopt a decision fixing the date of entry into force of these conventions for croatia. i voted in favor of the motion.
so, of course, we are talking about employment services and the further integration of labour markets. when i first saw this title, i thought, "oh, that's great. further integration of labour markets in europe! well, that means that doctors will start to come to hungary, german doctors, english doctors, french doctors, as well as nurses from france, england, germany, and finally there will be no huge shortages in the hungarian healthcare, we will be able to see the patients. and then i thought, well, the shortage of labor in the hospitality industry and the trade will end, because they will come from western europe to hungary to work as waiters and so on. then i realized that it probably wasn't. so please, don't call it labour integration, if it's just cheap labour moving from one part of europe to another, but call it what it is: colonization and brainwashing.
in writing. ‒ the high unemployment in some regions of europe has led to the recognition of the need to strengthen labour mobility within the union. we hope that this will contribute to the development of a european labour market with a high level of employment. this regulation aims to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers/employers by creating the largest database of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles. i support the inclusion of apprenticeships and traineeships in the europe-wide network. i propose to introduce an appropriate exchange of general information on mobility within the union in the field of apprenticeships and traineeships, which should be recognised in the same way as diplomas awarded by the member states' mainstream education systems. the reform should enable public employment services to lay the foundations for closer cooperation with education and training institutions, in particular in the field of continuing training, extending this to those over 40 years of age, allowing the use of information and communication technologies. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ep voted on the proposals for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european network of employment services (eures), access to mobility services for workers and further integration of labour markets. it is particularly emphasised that the regulation not only provides for the free movement of workers but also abolishes any basis for discrimination between workers of the member states. the eures-related objectives include a coordinated employment strategy (in particular for skilled labour), an integrated labour market, increased voluntary geographical and employment mobility within the union and support for a smooth transition from education to work. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the free choice of employment within the union should be considered as an integral part of the right to free movement, which is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union. this is an important element of eu citizenship, which has been seriously jeopardised by the current migration crisis. today, there are 23 million unemployed in the eu, and one in five young people is out of work. i believe that when filling vacancies, member states and the commission should ensure that priority is given to nationals of eu member states, thus implementing the principle of eu preference. despite rumours to the contrary, the mobility of eu workers within the union is low compared to the size of the labour market and the active population of the eu, but even compared to its larger competitors (e.g. the usa, japan): the eu mobility rate is only 0.29%. i support the purpose of the regulation that was passed. the eures network should be transformed into an effective tool for jobseekers and employers, while respecting the competences of the member states in the field of labour market regulation. the eu's labour market needs must be met not by mostly unskilled immigrants, but by strengthening the free employment of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the people's party because i consider the free choice of work within the union to be an integral part of the right to free movement, one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union, which is an important element of eu citizenship, which has been put at risk by the current migrant crisis. today, there are 23 million unemployed in the eu, and nearly one in five young people are out of work. despite rumours to the contrary, the mobility of eu workers within the union is low compared to the size of the labour market and the active population of the eu, and even compared to its larger competitors (the usa, japan) the eu-27 mobility rate is only 0.29%. the regulation aims to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers and employers, while respecting the competences of the member states in respect of labour market regulation, which remained a national competence. my view is that the employment problem must be reduced not by adding more non-eu and specifically unskilled immigrants, but by strengthening the free movement of eu citizens. in this context, i believe that, as regards the filling of vacant posts, the member states and the commission should ensure that priority is given to nationals of the member states of the union in order to ensure that the principle of union preference is also applied.
in writing. ‒ the free choice of employment within the union is an integral part of the right to free movement, one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union, and thus an important element of eu citizenship. in my view, the high unemployment in some regions of europe leads to the recognition that labour mobility within the union needs to be strengthened in order to improve the employment prospects of workers and to help employers to fill vacancies better and faster. this will contribute to the development of a european labour market with a high level of employment. in this sense, the regulation clearly confirms that labour market policy, including any incentive measures, remains a matter for national competence. in addition, the residence principle must be maintained. furthermore, all jobseekers should be provided with comprehensive information on the employment conditions and services at their place of work. it is crucial that the platform is easily accessible and as user-friendly as possible.
in writing. - i voted for the people's party. the right to free choice of employment within the union and the right to free movement are integral to the four freedoms enshrined in the constitution of the european union. this is one of the most precious rights of eu citizens, which has been put at risk by today's migrant crisis. today, there are 23 million unemployed in the eu, and nearly one in five young people are out of work. despite rumours to the contrary, the mobility of eu workers within the union is low in relation to the size of the labour market and the active population of the eu, even compared to its larger competitors (the usa, japan). the regulation aims to make the european network of employment services an effective tool for jobseekers and employers. the instrument respects the competences of the member states with regard to labour market regulation, which remains a national competence. i believe that the way to reduce the employment problem is not to increase the number of immigrants, especially those with no qualifications, but to strengthen the free movement of eu citizens. therefore, as regards the filling of vacant posts, member states and the commission should ensure that priority is given to nationals of the member states of the union. this is the way to achieve the principle of union preference.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the people's party because i consider the free choice of work within the union to be an integral part of the right to free movement, one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union, which is an important element of eu citizenship, which has been put at risk by the current migrant crisis. today, there are 23 million unemployed in the eu, and nearly one in five young people are out of work. despite rumours to the contrary, the mobility of eu workers within the union is low compared to the size of the labour market and the active population of the eu, and even compared to its larger competitors (the usa, japan) the eu-27 mobility rate is only 0.29%. the regulation aims to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers and employers, while respecting the competences of the member states in respect of labour market regulation, which remained a national competence. my view is that the employment problem must be reduced not by adding more non-eu and specifically unskilled immigrants, but by strengthening the free movement of eu citizens. in this context, i believe that, as regards the filling of vacant posts, the member states and the commission should ensure that priority is given to nationals of the member states of the union in order to ensure that the principle of union preference is also applied.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed a regulation to the parliament and the council to strengthen labour mobility within the union in order to improve the employment prospects of workers and to help employers to fill vacancies better and faster. it proposes to create the largest database of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles available to anyone at eu level. in order to make eures an effective tool for jobseekers and employers, the report of the employment and social affairs committee considers it important that the public and private employment services of the member states, which are well-functioning, participate in the network and that the network is made known throughout europe through communication measures by the commission and the member states. it also stresses that member states and the commission should ensure that priority is given to eu nationals when filling vacancies. the report also proposes that parliament adopt the proposal, albeit with more than 150 amendments. i voted in accordance with that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on further integration of labour markets, as i believe that any instrument that strengthens the labour market contributes to a stronger european union. i believe that there is a significant advantage in effectively linking the public and private sector job vacancies in the member states. however, i should note that the willingness of workers to move is not uniform across the union, and in many cases there is also a lack of mobility and labour shortages, depending on the region and the season. i think it is a matter of concern that social benefits and working conditions differ in the various member states. so i think that the new eures instrument can be useful, but it is not enough on its own. regional information is needed, incentives for employment and services. all this is done so that all information is available simultaneously in all 24 languages. i believe that the concessions made to prevent the 'brexit' now being outlined could seriously jeopardise this important endeavour. requests for concessions may also arise in other member states, but in this case the interconnection of the system may have a dubious effect.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to improve workers' access to services supporting labour mobility within the eu, thereby promoting equitable mobility and ensuring better access to employment opportunities throughout the union. the general objective of the proposal is to make the eures network an effective tool for all jobseekers and employers interested in the mobility of workers within the eu. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european commission proposes to open a temporary unilateral tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for tunisian olive oil exports to the eu. this concession would be granted by the union to tunisia until december 2017. the mediterranean countries are the eu's main olive oil producers. these countries have also been severely affected by the crisis. unemployment is high, above the eu average in all four countries. (portugal, spain, italy, greece the former two have unemployment rates above 10% and the latter two above 20%). solidarity with tunisia is a positive thing in itself, but it would be more justified in this case to be concerned about our own industry, our own economy. the rapporteur also acknowledges this in his explanatory statement for the draft:however, he reiterates that eu solidarity is at the expense of farmers in southern europe, in this case olive oil producers. the eu is a world leader in the olive oil sector, whose production is the main economic and social driver of the production areas. in particular, in the large areas of the eu countries that have been severely affected by the economic crisis, the olive oil sector provides thousands of jobs and its significant share of exports to third countries contributes to the eu's positive trade balance. other all in all, i was not in favour of the motion being passed.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015 have dealt a severe blow to an already struggling tunisian economy. in this difficult situation, the european union wishes to emphasise that it will continue to actively support tunisia, in particular its economic development. in this context, the commission proposes to open a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union for a total of 70 000 tonnes per year in the form of autonomous trade measures without increasing the total import volume. the tariff quota in question will be available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017 and will become available after the exhaustion of the duty-free tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force, as set out in the association agreement between the union and tunisia. however, if the new quota is detrimental to the commercial interests of the member states or has a negative impact on the internal market, the union shall be entitled to take the necessary steps to eliminate it.
in writing. the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015 have dealt a severe blow to an already struggling tunisian economy. in this difficult situation, the european union wishes to emphasise that it will continue to actively support tunisia, in particular its economic development. in this context, the commission proposes to open a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union for a total of 70 000 tonnes per year in the form of autonomous trade measures without increasing the total import volume. the tariff quota in question will be available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017 and will become available after the exhaustion of the duty-free tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force, as set out in the association agreement between the union and tunisia. however, if the new quota is detrimental to the commercial interests of the member states or has a negative impact on the internal market, the union shall be entitled to take the necessary steps to eliminate it.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to show solidarity with tunisia and to use our existing instruments to help stabilise the economy and democratic political system of the north african country. international terrorism poses a serious threat to the country and discourages tourists, without whom tunisia's economy could collapse. let us consider the aftermath of the terrible attack in sousse last year. therefore, the trade preference granted to assist the tunisian olive oil producers is to some extent justified. but we must show at least as much solidarity with european union producers. the exemption granted by the commission for an additional 35 000 tonnes of olive oil must not be allowed to become a routine measure. therefore, in the vote, i considered it a particular point to omit the clause on the extension of the duty-free period from the report.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015 have dealt a severe blow to an already struggling tunisian economy. in this difficult situation, the european union wishes to emphasise that it will continue to actively support tunisia, in particular its economic development. in this context, the commission proposes to open a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union for a total of 70 000 tonnes per year in the form of autonomous trade measures without increasing the total import volume. the tariff quota in question will be available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017 and will become available after the exhaustion of the duty-free tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force, as set out in the association agreement between the union and tunisia. however, if the new quota is detrimental to the commercial interests of the member states or has a negative impact on the internal market, the union shall be entitled to take the necessary steps to eliminate it.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the terrorist attack in sousse on 26 june 2015, the eu has seen the need to provide further assistance to tunisia in its political and economic transformation through concrete and targeted actions that can deliver results in the short term. on the basis of the above, the european commission proposes to open a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year in the form of autonomous trade measures for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the union. the tariff quota in question will be available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. this additional quantity will be available after the exhaustion of the duty-free tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force and fixed in the agreement. i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary for the european union to contribute to the recovery of the economy of this country in this undoubtedly difficult period. however, it is important to note that the union's solidarity is at the expense of farmers in southern europe, in this case olive oil producers. the eu is a world leader in the olive oil sector, whose production is the main economic and social driver of the production areas. in particular, in the large areas of the eu countries that have been severely affected by the economic crisis, the olive oil sector provides thousands of jobs and its significant share of exports to third countries contributes to the eu's positive trade balance.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015 have dealt a severe blow to an already struggling tunisian economy. in this difficult situation, the european union wishes to emphasise that it will continue to actively support tunisia's economic development. therefore, the commission proposes to open a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for a total of 70 000 tonnes for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the union in the form of autonomous trade measures without increasing the total import volume. the tariff quota in question will be available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017 and will become available after the exhaustion of the duty-free tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force, as set out in the association agreement between the union and tunisia. however, if the new quota is detrimental to the commercial interests of the member states or has a negative impact on the internal market, the union shall be entitled to take the necessary steps to eliminate it.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015 have dealt a severe blow to an already struggling tunisian economy. in this difficult situation, the european union wishes to emphasise that it will continue to actively support tunisia, in particular its economic development. in this context, the commission proposes to open a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union for a total of 70 000 tonnes per year in the form of autonomous trade measures without increasing the total import volume. the tariff quota in question will be available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017 and will become available after the exhaustion of the duty-free tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force, as set out in the association agreement between the union and tunisia. however, if the new quota is detrimental to the commercial interests of the member states or has a negative impact on the internal market, the union shall be entitled to take the necessary steps to eliminate it.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the parliament and of the council to support the tunisian economy, which is experiencing serious difficulties, and at the same time the democratization process in tunisia which is under way. to this end, it proposes to open a temporary unilateral tariff quota for tunisia for duty-free exports of 35 000 tonnes per year for a period of two years, for a total of 70 000 tonnes of olive oil, without increasing the total import volume. given that olive oil is tunisia's main agricultural export product to the union and that the tunisian olive oil sector indirectly employs more than one million people, representing one fifth of the total number of people employed in tunisian agriculture, the measure constitutes a major aid to tunisia. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament should support the adoption of the regulation with a few amendments. i voted in accordance with that.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015 have dealt a severe blow to an already struggling tunisian economy. in this difficult situation, the european union wishes to emphasise that it will continue to actively support tunisia, in particular its economic development. in this context, the commission proposes to open a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union for a total of 70 000 tonnes per year in the form of autonomous trade measures without increasing the total import volume. the tariff quota in question will be available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017 and will become available after the exhaustion of the duty-free tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force, as set out in the association agreement between the union and tunisia. however, if the new quota is detrimental to the commercial interests of the member states or has a negative impact on the internal market, the union shall be entitled to take the necessary steps to eliminate it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it is important for the european parliament to speak out on one of the most serious humanitarian disasters of our time and to use its international clout vis-à-vis saudi arabia and other parties to the conflict to improve the situation. i consider it urgent that the maritime blockade be lifted and that hostilities cease throughout yemen in order to allow humanitarian aid to reach its destination without hindrance. the situation is particularly worrying because of the high number of children among the victims and the serious threats to the safety of international aid workers. while agreeing that international efforts to resolve the situation in yemen should be pursued under the auspices of the un, i also took into account the fact that this issue also raises the specific responsibility of eu member states, in particular with regard to compliance and enforcement of the rules on restricting the supply of arms to the region. i believe that this aspect will have to be closely monitored by the european parliament in the future.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015 have dealt a severe blow to an already struggling tunisian economy. in this difficult situation, the european union wishes to emphasise that it will continue to actively support tunisia, in particular its economic development. in this context, the commission proposes to open a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union for a total of 70 000 tonnes per year in the form of autonomous trade measures without increasing the total import volume. this measure will have a positive impact on a large part of the tunisian economy. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application, under reference number egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of hainaut and namur in belgium. the committee considered that the application met the requirements of the relevant regulation and therefore i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application, under reference number egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of hainaut and namur in belgium. the measures financed by the egf are expected to involve 412 redundant workers and 100 unemployed young people under 25 years of age (neets) living in the hainaut region who are not in training or education. the request was made on the basis of the intervention criterion, which allows derogation in exceptional cases for redundant workers under article 4 (1) of the egf regulation and for neets under article 6 (2) of the egf regulation. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by belgium. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis, and of self-employed persons whose activity has ceased. on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application, under reference number egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of hainaut and namur in belgium. the measures financed by the egf are expected to involve 412 redundant workers and 100 unemployed young people under 25 years of age (neets) living in the hainaut region who are not in training or education. the request was made on the basis of the intervention criterion, which allows derogation in exceptional cases for redundant workers under article 4 (1) of the egf regulation and for neets under article 6 (2) of the egf regulation. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by belgium. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application, under reference number egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of hainaut and namur in belgium. the measures financed by the egf are expected to involve 412 redundant workers and 100 unemployed young people under 25 years of age (neets) living in the hainaut region who are not in training or education. the request was made on the basis of the intervention criterion, which allows derogation in exceptional cases for redundant workers under article 4 (1) of the egf regulation and for neets under article 6 (2) of the egf regulation. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by belgium. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application, under reference number egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of hainaut and namur in belgium. the measures financed by the egf are expected to involve 412 redundant workers and 100 unemployed young people under 25 years of age (neets) living in the hainaut region who are not in training or education. the request was made on the basis of the intervention criterion, which allows derogation in exceptional cases for redundant workers under article 4 (1) of the egf regulation and for neets under article 6 (2) of the egf regulation. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by belgium. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application, under reference number egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of hainaut and namur in belgium. the measures financed by the egf are expected to involve 412 redundant workers and 100 unemployed young people under 25 years of age (neets) living in the hainaut region who are not in training or education. the request was made on the basis of the intervention criterion, which allows derogation in exceptional cases for redundant workers under article 4 (1) of the egf regulation and for neets under article 6 (2) of the egf regulation. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by belgium. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application, under reference number egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of hainaut and namur in belgium. the measures financed by the egf are expected to involve 412 redundant workers and 100 unemployed young people under 25 years of age (neets) living in the hainaut region who are not in training or education. the request was made on the basis of the intervention criterion, which allows derogation in exceptional cases for redundant workers under article 4 (1) of the egf regulation and for neets under article 6 (2) of the egf regulation. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by belgium. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the fund shall not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 150 million in 2011 prices. on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application to mobilise the fund, in the amount of eur 1 095 544, to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in two enterprises in the provinces of hainaut and namur. the commission has concluded that the application fulfils the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf and that the measures envisaged by the belgian authorities constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the egf regulation and has therefore submitted to the parliament and the council a proposal to authorise the mobilisation of eur 1 095 544 from the european globalisation adjustment fund. in its report, the committee on budgets proposes that parliament adopt the commission's proposal and, on the basis of the request submitted by belgium, make a contribution to the mobilisation of the egf of eur 1 095 544. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 19 august 2015, belgium submitted an application, under reference number egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of hainaut and namur in belgium. the measures financed by the egf are expected to involve 412 redundant workers and 100 unemployed young people under 25 years of age (neets) living in the hainaut region who are not in training or education. the request was made on the basis of the intervention criterion, which allows derogation in exceptional cases for redundant workers under article 4 (1) of the egf regulation and for neets under article 6 (2) of the egf regulation. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by belgium. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 20 january 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by two companies in the belgian regions of hainaut and namur. the request concerns 412 dismissed workers and approximately 100 unemployed young people not in education or training. i voted for the motion.
madam president, actually there is very little change in terms of people speaking loudly in this chamber. i am one of those who cannot speak simultaneously with other people speaking loudly, so yet again i would like to ask you to kindly request people who just want to talk to each other to leave the room, leave the chamber and let others who want to give speeches do so. akkor most átváltok magyar nyelvre, és a 2016-os évi növekedési jelentéssel kapcsolatban el szeretném mondani, hogy azért nem szavaztam meg.. és legyen kedves az órát majd megállítani, amit ugye önnek kellene megtenni, és én megkértem, hogy tegye meg, ez ne számítson bele a felszólalási időmbe, jó? tehát egy soproni magyar családi vállalkozónak hallottam az interjúját odahaza a rádióban, aki meghatottan mondta azt, hogy az isten áldásának tekinti, hogy családi vállalkozó lehet, és feleségével, felnőtt fiaival, menyeivel együtt viheti a családi vállalkozást. mondta, hogy bízik benne, hogy az unokái is tovább fogják ezt a családi vállalkozást vinni, és nyilvánvalóan nem fogják magyarországot elhagyni, mert lesz miért maradniuk. ez a jövő útja, nem pedig ez az állandó önök által erőltetett növekedés. ezért nem szavaztam meg ezt a jelentést, mert egyáltalán nem hiszek ebben a folyamatos, erőltetett, neoliberális, globalista növekedésben.
in writing. ‒ in order to promote effective economic growth, i would like to stress the need to invest more in human capital in the context of labour market reforms. this means investing in education and innovation. improve national education, vocational training and lifelong learning systems. in doing so, they need to be adapted to the new skills and knowledge requirements of the eu labour market. all this enables innovation, which is a key driver of growth, productivity and competitiveness. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. since the crisis, both private and public investment figures have varied between member states. unfortunately, during the semester dossier discussions, it became clear that investment continues to be hampered by both regulatory and non-regulatory challenges. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that the identification and elimination of investment-disrupting challenges should be part of the efforts to improve framework conditions, reduce administrative barriers and eliminate regulatory bottlenecks. i welcome the fact that the european commission has once again started to explore policy areas and tools in this semester cycle that can provide an overview of the main challenges that are holding back investment at national level. i also believe that the analysis of the main challenges summarised in the country-specific briefings should, however, be continued in the context of the european semester, in particular in the country reports. i believe that it is time to re-launch dialogue with the member states - including in the form of thematic discussions in the council and in council committees - in order to identify these challenges and possible steps and measures to overcome them, otherwise the european semester process will not be able to fulfil the role we intended it to play when we created it.
in writing. ‒ since the crisis, both private and public investment have varied between member states. unfortunately, during the semester dossier discussions, it became clear that investment continues to be hampered by both regulatory and non-regulatory challenges. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that the identification and elimination of investment-disrupting challenges should be part of the efforts to improve framework conditions, reduce administrative barriers and eliminate regulatory bottlenecks. i welcome the fact that the european commission has once again started to explore policy areas and tools in this semester cycle that can provide an overview of the main challenges that are holding back investment at national level. i also believe that the analysis of the main challenges summarised in the country-specific briefings should, however, be continued in the context of the european semester, in particular in the country reports. i believe that it is time to re-launch dialogue with the member states - including in the form of thematic discussions in the council and in council committees - in order to identify these challenges and possible steps and measures to overcome them, otherwise the european semester process will not be able to fulfil the role we intended it to play when we created it.
in writing. ‒ since the crisis, both private and public investment figures have varied across member states. unfortunately, during the semester dossier discussions, it became clear that investment continues to be hampered by both regulatory and non-regulatory challenges. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that the identification and elimination of investment-disrupting challenges should be part of the efforts to improve framework conditions, reduce administrative barriers and eliminate regulatory bottlenecks. i welcome the fact that the european commission has once again started to explore policy areas and tools in this semester cycle that can provide an overview of the main challenges that are holding back investment at national level. i also believe that the analysis of the main challenges summarised in the country-specific briefings should, however, be continued in the context of the european semester, in particular in the country reports. i believe that it is time to re-launch dialogue with the member states - including in the form of thematic discussions in the council and in council committees - in order to identify these challenges and possible steps and measures to overcome them, otherwise the european semester process will not be able to fulfil the role we intended it to play when we created it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european commission's annual growth survey also highlights the need to pay greater attention to social equity in the new national, stability and reform programmes, and therefore to include three employment indicators (activity rate, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment) in the process of addressing macroeconomic imbalances; it is urgent that these indicators be given a genuine equal weight with the existing ones in order to allow for in-depth analyses in the member states concerned and to ensure that further examination of internal inequalities is carried out and that economic and social reforms can be proposed and monitored.
in writing. ‒ since the crisis, the number of both private and public investments has varied across member states. unfortunately, during the semester dossier discussions, it was demonstrated that investment continues to be hampered by regulatory and non-regulatory challenges. i therefore consider it important that identifying and addressing the challenges to investment should be part of the efforts to improve framework conditions and reduce administrative obstacles. i welcome the fact that the european commission has once again started to explore policy areas and tools in this semester cycle that can provide an overview of the main challenges that are holding back investment at national level. i believe that the analysis of the main challenges summarised in the country-specific briefings should certainly be continued in the context of the european semester, in particular in the country reports. it is time to re-engage with member states, including through thematic discussions in the council and in council committees, to identify these challenges and the steps and actions to address them. without them, the european semester process will not be able to fulfil the role we intended it to play when we created it.
in writing. ‒ on 26 november 2015, the commission published its report on growth in 2016. the report by the economic and monetary affairs committee notes that while the european union is experiencing economic recovery, it is rather uneven, with some member states continuing to struggle with low growth rates and global economic growth slowing down. it points out that europe continues to face a significant investment gap, which significantly weakens longer-term growth potential, and that the employment rate is improving, but not enough to significantly reduce unemployment and poverty. finally, it points out that, despite the growing current account surplus in the euro area and the significant reductions in current account deficits and specific labour costs in several member states, private and public debt remains high in many countries and net external debt as a proportion of gdp has not decreased in most member states. in the light of these challenges, the report seeks to contribute with proposals to the definition of economic policy priorities for 2016. it calls for measures to be geared to a stronger recovery, for the governance of emu to be deepened in the interests of stability and convergence, and for accountability, relevance and effectiveness to be enhanced by strengthening democracy. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth report 2016. in my view, it is too euro-centric and completely ignores the role of non-euro-area countries in the european semester. while the report notes that the implementation of the country-specific recommendations is inadequate, it does not address the fact that the compliance with the recommendations varies widely between euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries. (in 2014, euro area countries made some progress on 61% of recommendations, while non-euro area countries made at least some progress on only 33% of recommendations. ) although the rapporteur encourages a public debate on this, i am concerned about the proposal to create a mechanism through which the commission can better encourage member states to implement the country-specific recommendations. i also miss mentioning social equity, which is also a central element of policies to stimulate the economy. overall, although the report covers a number of important topics, it lacks the specific details on these issues and thus does not sufficiently emphasise the ep's expectations.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 annual growth report emphasises that stronger economic recovery and sustainable widespread prosperity require stronger national efforts and stronger european coordination and instruments for the effective implementation of structural reforms. i voted in favor of the final document.
given that we are deciding the real lives and destinies of real people here in the european parliament, i will return to my real person, who recently said that it is good to be a family entrepreneur, and not in a large multinational company, usually, of course, a vulnerable worker, because that is what we hungarians get. so we want to encourage family businesses, and encourage their support, and the employment and social aspects of this, which are the subject of this second report, are very important. here, family solidarity is the basis for employment, there is no unemployment, because they go to extreme lengths to keep the job of the family member. they're not gonna put him out on the street, try to maybe get him on his feet or some other way to keep the job. they don't throw out the little mother, the woman with the baby or the old worker because she's family.
in writing. ‒ it is recognised that, in general, educational efforts are focused primarily on the younger part of the workforce, whereas in many member states educational efforts should target a wider part of the workforce, including adult education and vocational training opportunities. i would like to underline that insufficient investment in education, especially in digital skills, is a threat to europe's competitiveness and the employability of the european workforce. i would therefore encourage member states to give priority to broad-based digital skills education. i ask the commission to support a broader investment strategy at member state level for the whole cycle of education and training, covering all sectors of lifelong learning, work-based and on-the-job training, dual training, formal and informal learning. i would like to recall that skills and competences acquired in non-formal and informal learning environments play an important role in improving the employability of young people and of those who have been excluded from the labour market for a longer period of time due to caring tasks. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. - following the popular position, i voted in favour of the ribeiro report. the report highlights that over the next 10-15 years, 90% of global economic growth will take place outside the eu. therefore, in my view, new solutions and approaches will be needed. in order to combat black employment and boost economic growth, the commission's work has led to the adoption of a number of amendments based on good practice in hungary. as we know, there are 23 million unemployed people in the union today, almost 40% of businesses cannot find a properly trained workforce, while public and private debts are still high in eu countries and only a few countries can claim to have made a substantial and effective effort to change all this. hungary has done a lot in recent years to whitewash the economy. the fight against sovereign and household foreign currency debt has also made significant progress, breaking with previous trends. efficient measures were also taken to develop work-based and on-the-job (dual) training, raise employment levels, expand childcare and meal programmes and improve employment for different target groups (young people, older people, women), in particular with regard to the application of tax incentives in labour market measures, in line with the recommendations of the report.
in writing. following the popular position, i voted in favour of the ribeiro report. the report highlights that over the next 10-15 years, 90% of global economic growth will take place outside the eu. therefore, in my view, new solutions and approaches will be needed. in order to combat black employment and boost economic growth, the commission's work has led to the adoption of a number of amendments based on good practice in hungary. as we know, there are 23 million unemployed people in the union today, almost 40% of businesses cannot find a properly trained workforce, while public and private debts are still high in eu countries and only a few countries can claim to have made a substantial and effective effort to change all this. hungary has done a lot in recent years to whitewash the economy. the fight against sovereign and household foreign currency debt has also made significant progress, breaking with previous trends. efficient measures were also taken to develop work-based and on-the-job (dual) training, raise employment levels, expand childcare and meal programmes and improve employment for different target groups (young people, older people, women), in particular with regard to the application of tax incentives in labour market measures, in line with the recommendations of the report.
in writing. - following the popular position, i voted in favour of the ribeiro report. the report highlights that over the next 10-15 years, 90% of global economic growth will take place outside the eu. therefore, in my view, new solutions and approaches will be needed. in order to combat black employment and boost economic growth, the commission's work has led to the adoption of a number of amendments based on good practice in hungary. as we know, there are 23 million unemployed people in the union today, almost 40% of businesses cannot find a properly trained workforce, while public and private debts are still high in the eu countries and only a few countries can claim to have made a real and effective effort to change all this. hungary has done a lot in recent years to whitewash the economy. the fight against sovereign and household foreign currency debt has also made significant progress, breaking with previous trends. efficient measures were also taken to develop work-based and on-the-job (dual) training, raise employment levels, expand childcare and meal programmes and improve employment for different target groups (young people, older people, women), in particular with regard to the application of tax incentives in labour market measures, in line with the recommendations of the report.
in writing. - following the popular position, i voted in favour of the ribeiro report. the report highlights that over the next 10-15 years, 90% of global economic growth will take place outside the eu. therefore, in my view, new solutions and approaches will be needed. in order to combat black employment and boost economic growth, the commission's work has led to the adoption of a number of amendments based on good practice in hungary. as we know, there are 23 million unemployed people in the union today, almost 40% of businesses cannot find a properly trained workforce, while public and private debts are still high in the eu countries - and only a few countries can claim to have made a substantial and effective effort to change all this. hungary has done a lot in recent years to whitewash the economy. the fight against sovereign and household foreign currency debt has also made significant progress, breaking with previous trends. efficient measures were also taken to develop work-based and on-the-job (dual) training, raise employment levels, expand childcare and meal programmes and improve employment for different target groups (young people, older people, women), in particular with regard to the application of tax incentives in labour market measures, in line with the recommendations of the report.
in writing. ‒ supports the priorities highlighted in the report, namely not only investing in social development to ensure sustainable and inclusive economic development and convergence, but also treating investments in this direction as an explicit objective; stresses therefore the importance of indicators related to quality of employment, poverty and inequality; welcomes the commission's call for investments in services such as housing allowance, healthcare, childcare and rehabilitation services; stresses that economic and social cohesion must remain a priority objective of eu policies and more efforts should be made to achieve a more complex and objective assessment, building on the diversity and characteristics of the member states.
in writing. - following the popular position, i voted in favour of the ribeiro report. the report highlights that over the next 10-15 years, 90% of global economic growth will take place outside the eu. therefore, in my view, new solutions and approaches will be needed. in order to combat black employment and boost economic growth, the commission's work has led to the adoption of a number of amendments based on good practice in hungary. as we know, there are 23 million unemployed in the union today. nearly 40% of enterprises cannot find a suitably qualified workforce, while public and private debt in eu countries is still high. few countries can claim to have made a meaningful and effective effort to change all of this. hungary has done a lot in recent years to whitewash the economy. in contrast to the previous trend, significant progress has been made in the fight against sovereign and retail foreign exchange debt. efficient measures have also been taken to develop on-the-job and on-the-job (dual) training, to raise employment levels, to expand childcare and feeding programmes and to improve employment for different target groups (young people, older people, women). this is in line with the recommendations of the report.
in writing. - following the popular position, i voted in favour of the ribeiro report. the report highlights that over the next 10-15 years, 90% of global economic growth will take place outside the eu. therefore, in my view, new solutions and approaches will be needed. in order to combat black employment and boost economic growth, the commission's work has led to the adoption of a number of amendments based on good practice in hungary. as we know, there are 23 million unemployed people in the union today, almost 40% of businesses cannot find a properly trained workforce, while public and private debts are still high in eu countries and only a few countries can claim to have made a substantial and effective effort to change all this. hungary has done a lot in recent years to whitewash the economy. the fight against sovereign and household foreign currency debt has also made significant progress, breaking with previous trends. efficient measures were also taken to develop work-based and on-the-job (dual) training, raise employment levels, expand childcare and meal programmes and improve employment for different target groups (young people, older people, women), in particular with regard to the application of tax incentives in labour market measures, in line with the recommendations of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on employment and social affairs accompanying the commission communication referred to in the previous paragraph also states that the economy is growing, but rather unevenly, and unemployment is falling, but not fast enough to curb unemployment and poverty. it urges member states to better adapt their education and training systems to tackle structural labour shortages, and considers it particularly important to provide a broad range of digital skills training. it points out that the youth guarantee is not implemented in many member states and considers it necessary to strengthen it at member state, regional and local level. it is concerned about the situation of the more than 12 million long-term unemployed in europe and considers that a personalised approach is essential to tackle their problem. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which summarised in detail the employment and social aspects of the 2016 growth survey. signs of economic growth have indeed already been seen in employment figures, but only to a small extent and to very different degrees in different member states. unemployment and working poverty remain a serious problem within the eu. the report rightly highlights the worrying level of youth unemployment. like the rapporteur, i welcome the commission's intention to extend the youth guarantee scheme, but regret that many member states have not been able to implement it successfully. i support the rapporteur's suggestion that, as poverty, social exclusion and homelessness are serious and increasing problems for most member states, the europe 2020 strategy should be reviewed to see how it can still achieve its objectives. i also agree with the recommendation in the report that the commission should facilitate cooperation between governments, companies, educational institutions, ngos, social enterprises, providing opportunities for sharing best practice and for a clearer picture of labour market needs. finally, i fully agree with the call for the eu to guarantee the proper use of european funds, which requires even stricter supervision by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the unemployment rate has been declining slowly since the second half of 2013, but not significantly enough to keep unemployment and poverty under control, despite supportive macroeconomic policies and structural reforms. however, in many member states it is still too high, currently affecting 9.9% of active citizens, that is 23 million europeans, of whom about half are permanently unemployed, and in more than 10% of the euro area it is still well above the 2008 figure. i supported the report.
i am planning, ladies and gentlemen, to compile a dictionary of the languages of the european union with a central and eastern european focus. for example, the single market, what does it mean from our point of view? that we had to give up to western companies, so-called investors, that, in the era of the regime change, we had to give up all our factories, we had to give up our land, we had to give up with equal chances to the french or the germans, as the european court of justice has now decided, the possibility of the cafeteria, the possibility of the elizabeth i i. it is not by chance that the hungarian state or the hungarian company would benefit. i think that it would be worth calling it a single market when the hungarian entrepreneur will have the same chance to buy french or english or german land, factories, service options as vice versa. in the meantime, let's call it colonization, again.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the integration of the single market into the 2016 european semester. the report stresses the importance of further developing the single market and is concerned that the implementation of its recommendations for the european semester 2011-2014 has been weaker than expected. it therefore calls on the commission to propose a mechanism to encourage countries to implement the country-specific recommendations and to include monitoring of this in the european semester. i disagree with the report because it is essentially a continuation of the faulty economic policy and philosophy that has been in place up to now, which does not take into account the huge differences between the member states (e.g. five times the wage differentials, the significantly different economic structure, the division of the union into competing debtor and creditor countries, etc.) and continues to enforce a policy that has long since been shown to have failed. the union could develop much faster than the united states under a different, non-neoliberal policy, because catching up with the less developed countries would provide a significant dynamic. based on all of this, i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the single market governance report is one of the three parliamentary reports on the 2016 european semester. the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of the single market is not being realised at present. i believe that the union should support member states to significantly increase cross-border trade and to act urgently to make better use of digital technologies. i believe that the governance of the single market must be strengthened to make the union a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the harmonisation of the transposition and implementation of eu rules, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the single market truly benefits citizens and businesses. the functioning of the single market will be reviewed in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. it is necessary to look precisely at where progress has been made and to try to identify where difficulties remain. these should be the basis for defining policy priorities.
in writing. the single market governance report is one of the three parliamentary reports on the 2016 european semester. the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of the single market is not being realised at present. the union should support member states to significantly increase cross-border trade and to act urgently to make better use of digital technologies. in my view, the governance of the single market needs to be strengthened in order to make it the union's engine for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the harmonisation of the transposition and implementation of eu rules, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the single market truly benefits citizens and businesses. the most important thing we need to do now is to review the functioning of the single market in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore necessary to look precisely at where progress has been made and to try to identify where difficulties remain. these should be the basis for defining policy priorities.
in writing. ‒ the single market governance report is one of the three parliamentary reports on the 2016 european semester. the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of the single market is not being realised at present. the union should support member states to significantly increase cross-border trade and to act urgently to make better use of digital technologies. in my view, the governance of the single market needs to be strengthened in order to make it the union's engine for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the harmonisation of the transposition and implementation of eu rules, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the single market truly benefits citizens and businesses. the most important thing we need to do now is to review the functioning of the single market in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore necessary to look precisely at where progress has been made and to try to identify where difficulties remain. these should be the basis for defining policy priorities.
in writing. ‒ the single market governance report is one of the three parliamentary reports on the 2016 european semester. the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of the single market is not being realised at present. the union should support member states to significantly increase cross-border trade and to act urgently to make better use of digital technologies. in my view, the governance of the single market needs to be strengthened in order to make it the union's engine for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the harmonisation of the transposition and implementation of eu rules, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the single market truly benefits citizens and businesses. the most important thing we need to do now is to review the functioning of the single market in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore necessary to look precisely at where progress has been made and to try to identify where difficulties remain. these should be the basis for defining policy priorities.
in writing. ‒ the single market governance report is one of the three parliamentary reports on the 2016 european semester. the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of the single market is not being realised at present. the union should support member states to significantly increase cross-border trade and to act urgently to make better use of digital technologies. in my view, the governance of the single market needs to be strengthened in order to make it the union's engine for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the harmonisation of the transposition and implementation of eu rules, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the single market truly benefits citizens and businesses. the most important thing we need to do now is to review the functioning of the single market in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore necessary to look precisely at where progress has been made and to try to identify where difficulties remain. these should be the basis for defining policy priorities.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the internal market and consumer protection report points out that the single market is a valuable resource with an estimated untapped potential of eur 1 billion and therefore advocates the inclusion of the single market pillar in the european semester. it shall pay particular attention to the creation of the digital single market. the commission notes with reference to its report referred to in point 7 that the challenges of digital competition are that emerging economies may outperform more developed economies by adopting the latest technologies and global sourcing of products and services. it therefore urges increased investment in ict, digital technologies and r&d. it also considers it essential to replace as soon as possible the current shortage of necessary digital skills and training, without which the digital single market will never be fully realised and which will enable eu citizens to adapt to the increasing digitalisation of companies and industries. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the 2016 european semester. i agree with the report that the current and future economic recovery of the european union depends on our ability to harness the untapped potential of the single market. the rapporteur rightly pointed out that these untapped opportunities also indicate that there are further problems before the single market can function smoothly. i support the proposal that the commission should carry out regular monitoring of the implementation and enforcement of single market rules in the framework of country-specific recommendations. it is indeed a matter of concern that the level of implementation of the recommendations of the european semester for the period 2011-2014 has not met expectations, and a mechanism is needed to encourage countries to implement the country-specific recommendations. in addition, i welcome the fact that the report also addressed the importance of the digital single market and the sharing economy. investing in digital technologies, r & d and the development of digital skills is essential if the european union is to remain competitive.
in writing. ‒ the single market is one of the foundations of the eu. in order to successfully promote economic growth and stabilise the economies of the member states, the european semester should equally embrace the single market and policies aimed at its full realisation. in our opinion, the final form of the report still does not represent the expectations of the left with sufficient force and does not always carry forward the results already successfully achieved by our group in the past. that's why i abstained in the final vote.
another word in my vocabulary, free trade. what does free trade mean? well, that means that there's an opportunity to, in the spirit of free competition, to push down wages in both countries concerned, to push down prices, like farm purchase prices, to get down and down. the small farmers, the family farmers, the family businesses, the small businesses, the micro-businesses, they're going to die. and it also means, which is completely illogical for a five-year-old child, for example, to transport food, food from one end of the world to the other, instead of providing livelihoods for rural people there, in the country, and providing healthy, good quality food for the local population, we would provide food that is not chemically treated, that is not subject to any of the different transportation processes, that is locally grown.
in writing. ‒ eu-tunisia free trade negotiations started in autumn 2015. these negotiations are of major political and economic importance for tunisia, both in terms of democratic stabilisation and market opening processes. tunisia has made significant progress towards the democratic state development that is the basis for the reforms. at the same time, i stressed the need to give priority to the interests of the member states of the european union, especially in relation to agricultural products, in the negotiations. the situation must not be such as to undermine the competitiveness of the union producers. i have, however, voted in favour of the adoption of the report, my final opinion being formed in the light of the text of the treaty under discussion.
in writing. ‒ negotiations between the eu and tunisia started on 13 october 2015. these negotiations are of major political and economic importance for tunisia, both in terms of democratic stabilisation and market opening processes. tunisia has made significant progress towards the democratic state development that is the basis for the reforms. the negotiations shall also pay particular attention to the interests of the member states of the european union, with particular regard to agricultural products.
in writing. negotiations between the eu and tunisia started on 13 october 2015. these negotiations are of major political and economic importance for tunisia, both in terms of democratic stabilisation and market opening processes. tunisia has made significant progress towards the democratic state development that is the basis for the reforms. the negotiations shall also pay particular attention to the interests of the member states of the european union, with particular regard to agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ negotiations between the eu and tunisia started on 13 october 2015. these negotiations are of major political and economic importance for tunisia, both in terms of democratic stabilisation and market opening processes. tunisia has made significant progress towards the democratic state development that is the basis for the reforms. the negotiations shall also pay particular attention to the interests of the member states of the european union, with particular regard to agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ negotiations between the eu and tunisia started on 13 october 2015. these negotiations are of major political and economic importance for tunisia, both in terms of democratic stabilisation and market opening processes. tunisia has made significant progress towards the democratic state development that is the basis for the reforms. the negotiations shall also pay particular attention to the interests of the member states of the european union, with particular regard to agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ negotiations between the eu and tunisia started on 13 october 2015. these negotiations are of major political and economic importance for tunisia in the context of democratic stabilisation and market opening processes. tunisia has made significant progress towards the democratic state development that is the basis for the reforms. the negotiations shall also pay particular attention to the interests of the member states of the european union, with particular regard to agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ negotiations between the eu and tunisia started on 13 october 2015. these negotiations are of major political and economic importance for tunisia, both in terms of democratic stabilisation and market opening processes. tunisia has made significant progress towards the democratic state development that is the basis for the reforms. the negotiations shall also pay particular attention to the interests of the member states of the european union, with particular regard to agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is the cradle of the arab spring and the only country in the middle east and north africa to have undergone a process of democratic and political transformation: a new constitution, adopted on 26 january 2014, is exemplary in protecting rights and freedoms, and free, plural and transparent elections were held at the end of 2014. in this respect, tunisia is an example of democratic transition for other countries in the region. the eu and tunisia also have close and long-standing relations: the first agreement on trade cooperation was concluded in 1969 and tunisia was the first country on the southern shore of the mediterranean to sign an association agreement with the eu in 1995. the commission therefore considers that the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia on 13 october 2015 is appropriate and appropriate to ensure the smooth conclusion of the negotiations. considers it important, in order to do so, that the agreement takes into account the significant economic differences between the two parties, provides for the progressive, gradual and asymmetric opening of sectors of the tunisian economy and that the eu provides substantial financial and technical assistance to tunisia in order to implement the various provisions of the free trade agreement in a proper manner. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ negotiations between the eu and tunisia started on 13 october 2015. these negotiations are of major political and economic importance for tunisia, both in terms of democratic stabilisation and market opening processes. tunisia has made significant progress towards the democratic state development that is the basis for the reforms. the negotiations shall also pay particular attention to the interests of the member states of the european union, with particular regard to agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which proposes the creation of a comprehensive free trade agreement between the european union and its member states and tunisia, and i welcome the start of negotiations on this last autumn. the importance of this is also clear to me from a political point of view, given the tradition of relations between european countries and tunisia, the fact that tunisia was the first country in the southern mediterranean region to sign an association agreement with the eu, and the pioneering role that tunisia played in the arab spring in launching the process of democratisation in the region. the eu is tunisia's largest trading partner, but i agree with the eu approach, as indicated in the negotiating mandate, that the difficult economic situation and political and regional characteristics of the country must be taken into account. this justifies the eu's acceptance of gradual market opening, asymmetrical negotiations and agreement as an objective. at the same time, i consider it important and will do so in my work as your representative to ensure that the future eu-tunisia free trade agreement does not cause disproportionate damage to the interests of european farmers and that eu health and environmental standards are properly applied.
in writing. ‒ the eu and tunisia have very close and long-standing relations, with the eu being tunisia's number one trading partner and tunisia the eu's 34th trading partner. the eu-tunisia association agreement provides for the establishment of a special economic zone (sez) between the eu and tunisia. the partnership is also expected to contribute to the political and democratic stabilisation of tunisia. i voted in favor of the motion.
i would like you to imagine a lake and a man walking on the shore. he's horrified to see five drowning in the water. he decides to save one because it happens to be his own child. is what you did morally acceptable? i think i did. another person has 10 poor, elderly people in misery, in need of care, of care. she decides to take care of two of them, to take care of them, because they happen to be her own parents. is it ethical? i think i did. it's called migration. we hungarians, and i think many european countries think so, we sympathize with those who are facing various kinds of suffering, but we still think that we know our own citizens and we want to support them with our limited resources. is it ethical? i think it is, and the whole european union system, starting with the ombudsman, should be aware of this.
in writing. ‒ according to the information available, the european ombudsman works closely with his counterparts in the member states. this cooperation takes place within the framework of the european network of ombudsmen, which includes national and regional ombudsmen, commissions on petitions and similar bodies from the member states of the european union, candidate countries for eu membership and other countries of the european economic area and the schengen area. parliament's committee on petitions is a full member of the network. the ombudsman also meets regularly with members and officials of the union's institutions to discuss how the quality of administration could be improved, to stress to them the importance of proper complaint handling and to ensure that his recommendations and reports are put to good use. of course, the ombudsman's work can be further improved, but his work so far has met the basic expectations, so i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman works closely with his counterparts in the member states. this cooperation takes place within the framework of the european network of ombudsmen, which includes national and regional ombudsmen, commissions on petitions and similar bodies from the member states of the european union, candidate countries for eu membership and other countries of the european economic area and the schengen area. parliament's committee on petitions is a full member of the network. the ombudsman also meets regularly with members and officials of the union's institutions to discuss how the quality of administration could be improved, to stress to them the importance of proper complaint handling and to ensure that his recommendations and reports are put to good use. the ombudsman's budget is an autonomous section of the budget of the european union. the ombudsman's budget for 2014 was eur 9 857 002 and the establishment plan of the institution provides for 67 posts.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman presented his report on the activities of the european ombudsman for the year 2014 to the president of the european parliament on 26 may 2015. the committee on petitions proposes that the european parliament: congratulate emily o'reilly on her re-election as european ombudsman on 16 december 2014 and on the excellent work she has done; support the objective of the eu institutions to help provide the best possible service to the citizens and residents of europe; agree with the ombudsman's focus on transparency as a guarantee of good administration; take a position in favour of increasing the annual budget of the ombudsman's office; approve the proposed annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly supported the adoption of the european ombudsman's activity report for 2014 as it reflects the valuable contribution of the ombudsman re-elected that year to creating a more open and citizen-friendly european union. the european ombudsman's activities have clearly become more active during the reporting period, especially in the field of own-initiative inquiries. as a representative, i attach particular importance to and follow your work, both in the past and in the future, on the protection of the rights of migrants, the introduction of the conditions of operation and mandatory registration of eu lobbyists, and the management of eu-funded funds and projects.
in writing. ‒ emily o'reilly was re-elected european ombudsman by parliament at its plenary session in strasbourg on 16 december 2014. on 26 may 2015, emily oreilly presented her annual report for 2014 to the president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz. in 2014, the ombudsman dealt with 2163 complaints received. in 1217 cases the ombudsman's office gave advice or referred the case (for example to a member of the european network of ombudsmen or to the parliament's committee on petitions), in 621 cases the complainant was informed that the office was unable to provide further advice and in 325 cases an inquiry was opened. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is essentially a commentary on the 2014 report of the european central bank. it's a very dry, technical piece, and it doesn't deal with real economic problems, like the huge german export surplus, which is causing the external indebtedness of peripheral countries to rise. the report to the european parliament sets out a number of general and well-known principles for the ecb, while acknowledging that ecb policy has not been particularly effective in boosting the euro area economy. add to this that the tools of monetary control - such as cheap credit - cannot solve problems that arise from a lack of general demand. the solution would have been a massive public investment, which is prohibited by the lisbon treaty. the report's recommendations are nothing more than a reinforcement of the principles of neoliberal economic policy that have been applied so far. that's why i didn't think the report was useful and i rejected it.
in writing. ‒ the president of the ecb presented the bank's annual report for 2014. the economic and monetary committee's motion for a resolution on this subject emphasises that: the commission's autumn forecast expects the economic recovery in the euro area to expand, but that this growth is not on a stable basis; unemployment in the euro area will slowly decline, but unemployment in many member states will remain at alarming levels; the budget deficit and public debt in the euro area are expected to decline; low energy prices may help the economic recovery. the committee also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. it also proposes that parliament should expect the ecb to contribute to the general economic policy within the union, in accordance with article 282 tfeu, provided that the success of its main mission of price stability is not jeopardised, and to strengthen its commitment to the ecb's independence in the conduct of monetary policy, while respecting the independence enshrined in the treaty. finally, it suggests that national governments and authorities should refrain from requesting the ecb to take specific measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the european central bank on its annual report 2014, which recognises the achievements of the european central bank (ecb), but also clearly identifies the further challenges it faces. the bank has made significant progress in ensuring transparency. as the report points out, the publication of the summaries of minutes of meetings is an important step, but there is still room for improvement in the transparency of its communication channel. the ecb's president's commitment to a more effective dialogue with the european parliament and the public justification of other central banks' decisions, following the ecb's example, are also welcome developments. i also agree with the need to improve the conditions for public and private investment in growth and jobs and that the ecb should pay particular attention to the potential unintended consequences and long-term effects of unconventional monetary policy instruments.
in writing. ‒ the commission's latest autumn forecast expects the euro area economic recovery to expand, with real gdp forecast to grow by 1.4% in 2015, 1.7% in 2016 and 1.8% in 2017. growth is not based on stable foundations; a strong political commitment to implementing sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is key to economic growth. i voted for the report.
of course, i did not vote for this free trade agreement either, because every free trade agreement is part of a certain set of values, a certain worldview. this particular value system and worldview is what i would call a money-and-profit-centered worldview, which always asks what is good for money and for profit. this should be replaced by a human-centered, community-centered, and nature-centered worldview that asks not what's good for profit, but what's good for people, for community, and for nature. people who watch us are often disappointed that there are about six of us in the room right now. they often say in comments that these representatives are talking to the wall? i am extremely grateful to my colleague, mr kelly, and i hope you will not take it personally, that he has given us a positive response to the fact that we should think a little bit about what my colleague, mr morvai, is saying, because free trade, for example, is something that has been constantly instilled in us since we were in school, that it is something very positive. we look at each other sometimes, and we plant some seeds of thought in each other, and we may change each other's thinking, so i'm seeing things a little bit more positively today than i was even 24 hours ago, and i would like us to move from a money and profit-centered worldview to a people and community-centered worldview.
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners, share values with the eu and are committed to promoting prosperity and security globally within a rules-based system. i consider the importance of deepening relations between the european union and the asia-pacific region to be of great importance for european economic growth and stress that this is reflected in the european union's trade policy. i believe that australia and new zealand have a key role to play in this strategy and that expanding and deepening trade with these partners can help achieve this.
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners, share the same values as the eu and are committed to promoting prosperity and security globally. both countries have full rule of law and strong protection of environmental, human, social and labour rights. negotiations on the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the european union and new zealand (parc) were concluded on 30 july 2014 and on the eu-australia framework agreement (fa) on 22 april 2015. the committee on international trade proposes that the ep take the view that the potential of the eu's bilateral and regional cooperation strategies can only be realised if high-quality free trade agreements are concluded with both australia and new zealand in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit. recommends therefore that the commission carry out comprehensive sustainability impact assessments of potential agreements as soon as possible in order to be able to thoroughly assess the potential benefits and disadvantages of enhancing trade and investment relations between the eu and australia and between the eu and new zealand; i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly supported the adoption of the european ombudsman's activity report for 2014 as it reflects the valuable contribution of the ombudsman re-elected that year to creating a more open and citizen-friendly european union. the european ombudsman's activities have clearly become more active during the reporting period, especially in the field of own-initiative inquiries. as a representative, i attach particular importance to and follow your work, both in the past and in the future, on the protection of the rights of migrants, the introduction of the conditions of operation and mandatory registration of eu lobbyists, and the management of eu-funded funds and projects.
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners, share values with the eu and are committed to promoting prosperity and security globally within a rules-based system. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to draw attention to the poor conditions in which pet animals are placed under the current system. an important step towards promoting the maximum application of animal welfare considerations would be for the commission to adopt a regulation on animal diseases and to establish a complex pet animal registry system, also under a delegated act. the clear advantage of a comprehensive register would be to prevent the spread of infectious diseases affecting such animals and to locate the source of infection, and to allow for the harmonisation of the different official certificates issued to animals in the member states and for better traceability of the passport of animals. the current animal passport regime contains loopholes which allow black farmers to exploit the benefits of the passport to transport pet animals from one member state to another for commercial purposes. this market generates billions of euros in revenue for operators in the black economy every year, but it also poses a serious threat to the genetic deterioration of farmed animals and to the animal welfare of individual individuals. it is important that, by eliminating the loopholes, a system is established which, thanks to the complex register, allows the control of the place of origin of the specimens concerned and the recording of the animal health data. on the basis of the foregoing, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the commission funded a study on the welfare of dogs and cats affected by commercial practices, which was published in 2015, and the schengen area without borders ensures citizens' passport-free travel between member states, thereby facilitating the uncontrolled movement of pet animals within the union. in the light of these factors, i would stress that pet animals make a positive contribution to the lives of millions of pet owners and families and that pet owners and their animals should be able to travel safely and in a controlled manner within the union.
in writing. ‒ the ppe and ecr groups tabled a joint motion on this subject, and the alde, s&d, gue/ngl and efdd groups tabled a separate motion. the appointed groups, with the exception of the efdd, reached a compromise agreement on the content of the motion for a resolution, which was joined by the verts/ale group. i voted in favor of the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the introduction of common, compatible registration systems for pet animals. the resolution points to the growing illegal trade in pet animals, which is accompanied by widespread abuse of the pet travel system, the avoidance of checks and document forgery. so much so that the illegal trade in these animals is the third most profitable in the european union, after drugs and weapons. i think it is important to note in the resolution that we also have to deal with the issue because the pet animals involved in the illegal trade are often poorly bred, poorly socialised and at increased risk of disease, and 70% of the new human diseases that have emerged in recent decades are of animal origin. i believe that the establishment of a common system will not necessarily be complicated, as most member states already have some form of registration and/or identification system, but (despite this) the traceability of pet animals transported across eu borders is limited. i agree that compatible identification and registration requirements for dogs and cats would reduce document forgery and illegal trade, thereby improving animal welfare, protecting public and animal health and ensuring effective traceability within the union.
in writing. ‒ most member states already have some standards for the registration and/or identification of pet animals. however, most of these databases are not yet compatible and the traceability of pet animals transported across union borders is limited. i voted for the s&d position.
after all the criticism i've been getting here, let me report another positive shift. at the request and pressure of many of us and following your speeches, i see that there is a shift, which is also indicated in the yemeni report. so far, this is the situation. the european union has always stated that, unfortunately, for reasons that we have not investigated, some terrible war breaks out in a third world country in dire straits. that's where the refugees come from, and it's our duty to take them in, to resettle them in places like hungary. if you don't, say, my country, they start to insult it. that was the schedule. now there's a change, please, because this yemen report is already going after it, and it's going after the underlying causes relatively honestly. it begins to reveal, for example, that in yemen, the saudi-led military intervention, including the use of internationally banned cluster bombs, has resulted in a catastrophic humanitarian situation. we are now criticising our good friend, the united states, saudi arabia, and the eu member states for their arms exports. i think the right way to do this is to look at the underlying causes and treat them, rather than vilifying those who cannot take in refugees from this situation.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned by the violence in yemen and the resulting humanitarian crisis, which affects millions of innocent men, women and children, and the loss of life in the conflict and the suffering of those trapped in the region as a result of the fighting. i strongly support the efforts of un special envoy ismail uld sheikh ahmed to find a lasting and peaceful solution to the current crisis, and all state and non-state actors in the conflict to work towards peace and reconciliation and to participate in this process without preconditions.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the groups of the ecr, gue/ngl, verts/ale, alde, s&d, ppe and efdd. the other six groups, with the exception of the ecr, agreed on a joint compromise draft, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it is important that the european parliament should speak out on one of the most serious humanitarian disasters of our time and use its international clout to improve the situation with saudi arabia and other parties to the conflict. i consider it urgent that the maritime blockade be lifted and that hostilities cease throughout yemen in order to allow humanitarian aid to reach its destination without hindrance. the situation is particularly worrying because of the high number of children among the victims and the serious threats to the safety of international aid workers. while agreeing that international efforts to resolve the situation in yemen should be pursued under the auspices of the un, i also took into account the fact that this issue also raises the specific responsibility of eu member states, in particular with regard to compliance and enforcement of the rules on restricting the supply of arms to the region. i believe that this aspect will have to be closely monitored by the european parliament in the future.
in writing. ‒ the current conflict in yemen is caused by the failure of successive governments to meet the democratic, economic and social aspirations of the yemeni people, thereby fuelling the discontent and division that has led to the current violence. the key to resolving the crisis lies with saudi arabia and iran, and the proposal therefore urges both sides to take action to improve bilateral relations and to seek cooperation to end the fighting in yemen. i voted for the s&d position.
it's a two-card draw. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we have heard from mr tarabella and others that this is a very important objective, which is good for the health of children, good for the european food industry, good for agriculture. my question, mr president, is whether you agree with me that we have a duty to present such a programme as a joint action of the european union. so that it is good for the european union as a whole. because it's strange to me that there are political forces that are constantly using and emphasizing the negatives of the european union and not the very successful programs like this.
it's a two-card draw. i would ask the honourable member, and a few others who are dealing with the details of this programme, that although i do believe that in each country there are products which are specifically very, very important - we are talking about national products - but if we look at the volume of this programme and we see that it is roughly four, that is, four euros per child and per year from eu funding, then i see that this is a fairly serious debate.
i would like to thank my colleague marc tarabella for his tremendous work and all the colleagues who have contributed to the improvement of this programme. it is absolutely essential that the european parliament should deal with the nutrition of children. this is because a large proportion of the roughly 60 million young people in europe who are affected by this need additional support for healthy eating. i am also disappointed that the member states are doing very little about this. and if the european union, the european commission and the european parliament had not taken a clear position on this, many member states would have cancelled such programmes as they are, and i consider this to be a disgrace to europe. but thanks to the european institutions, you're paying attention. and one last thing. there are governments that are very heavily taxed on these programs, like the hungarian government, which has a 27 percent vat on all food, including baby food items. i ask everyone to consider, not just in this programme, but in general, making food in europe free of vat or very low vat together.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i myself agree that there are many, many virtues and values in this regulation. and actually, i'd like to ask a question at the point where you've indicated the word flexibility. in particular, we can also observe the decentralisation of the animal health system in certain countries, which i believe may be a hindrance to the possibility of joint action. so i ask you, how do you think the decentralization is going to affect the decentralization of the economy?
rapporteur.– madam president, the report on the protection of the eu’s financial interests is one of the most important reports that we discuss on a yearly basis here in parliament. not only because this is about money, a lot of public money, but also because in the troubled times that we have right now, building back confidence in eu institutions is a key issue for the european institutions and for every responsible european politician. we have to assure citizens of the european union that their money is used properly, is transparent and is spent in a way which is in line with the eu regulation. the report which we discuss on a yearly basis generally mirrors the opinion of the commission and this year we had a good and quite detailed report. of course parliament as usual has its own priorities and issues to be raised in the debate. the report we voted on in the committee on budgetary control (cont) has wide backing from different political groups and was voted for almost unanimously in the cont committee. basically we concentrate on two levels of protection of the eu’s financial interests. the first is protection of the revenue of the european union, the own resources of the eu. from this perspective i think that it is very important to emphasise that vat fraud is clearly an eu competence as vat is part of the eu own resource system. the vat gap is varying too not only at european level but also at member state level. the vat gap reached eur 168 billion in 2013. so we welcome that the commission supports a strong pif directive, including vat in the scope, but we have also to include it in the directive or the regulation on the european public prosecutor’s office to be effective. a couple of days ago too the european court of auditors published a special report on vat issues and this supports our view that the eu system on vat is not effective enough: data coming from the member states is not reliable; exchange of information among the member states is not working properly; tax authorities do not cooperate effectively and the european anti-fraud office (olaf) does not have competence to investigate cross-border vat fraud, so it is an important issue. but we also have to point out the problems with the recovery rate because in 2014 it was at the level of 24% which is a historical lowest point and this has to change. the second level of the protection of the financial interests of the eu is proper spending of eu resources. the member states and the commission have shared responsibility for implementing approximately 80% of the european union’s budget so the commission has a lot of things to do here. we need sound financial management while spending eu money and it should be combined with a ‘best use of every euro’ approach. we accepted a new public procurement directive but it is also important to check its implementation. i also have to mention the corruption index in our report. i have to raise the issue of the biannual anti-corruption report of the commission, which we are eager awaiting in parliament and we hope that this year it is going to include the 29th chapter on the eu institutions as well, and better protection for whistle-blowers in the european union and in the member states as whistle-blowers are a very important part of anti-corruption activity. i think that we had very good cooperation together with the shadow rapporteurs. we have prepared a report which i believe can count on well founded grounds on your support in the vote.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank everyone very much for all the comments and suggestions they have made. i will try to answer everyone, especially those who have put forward questions to the commission. let me start first with the role of prevention. as mr pirinski indicated, we are putting in place early warning systems that allow us to integrate different databases so that, as in the last intervention, we can actually see where money comes from and who the beneficiary is and then trace the route of the money. we now have multiple systems, and they do not always talk to each other, and that is a problem we are concentrated very much on resolving. in the budget focus for results initiative, we also want to create a way for us to see not only the movement of money, but also what we are getting for the money – what the benefit is, what the impact is. this will take time, but the efforts are structured and consolidated and, as i mentioned in my opening comments, already in the next quarter we will see some operationalisation of a better integration of these systems. secondly, there was a point made on the importance of separating irregularities and fraud. of course, fraud is the most dangerous – it is cancerous in societies – but it is also the more difficult to catch, because in fraudulent activities there is usually a lot of effort and smart investment to hide what is being done. what does it mean for us? two things: one, to simplify the rules so that it is more difficult to create misinformation, and that simplification certainly would not only reduce fraud but also would reduce irregularities. secondly, in the analyses we do to sketch more clearly the lessons learned when we catch fraud, what does it mean in terms of the systems in place to prevent it from happening? here comes the point on institutional capabilities. we are currently missing a hammer when we know from the work of olaf that there is irregularity and, more importantly, there is fraud because we send the information back to national authorities and it is up to them. in countries where the legal system is strong, action is taken; in countries where there are difficulties in the legal system, it may not be taken. we know that people here recently reflected on only 24% being claimed back – this is, by the way, not only about fraud, but also about irregularity. our thinking in the commission was that, with the european public prosecutor’s office, we will provide this extra hammer to go after fraud. we put forward the proposal, but unfortunately what we have seen is a watering down of the original proposal. we are concerned about it and have expressed our concerns, including the fact that vip fraud now seems to be excluded from the mandate of the eppo, which of course would mean a big chunk of potential abuse being out of action. of course, it is for member states to complete their deliberations on the european public prosecutor’s office, but i would agree with those of you who have said that it has to be value added for us to fund it. we do not need institutions for the sake of institutions; we need them for effectiveness, for doing the right job. there has been a very important point made that we are strong when we equip people with the opportunity to speak up. in that sense, protection for whistle—blowers is critical. we do it for staff in the commission, and the question is: what more can we do to support member states in enhancing their whistle-blower legislation? that is a conversation still to be had – what is our responsibility? we want to be sure, we want to be prudent, and we do not want to step out of line of what is our responsibility. we heard a comment that if we do not respect sovereignty and subsidiarity there could be more trouble than benefit, and we are, of course, very mindful of this. let me finish by saying that we hope next year will come, mr pirinski, with a very good analysis of why the level of fraud has gone up. is it because we detect more, so we catch more, or is it actually bad news, because more is taking place? hopefully we would already integrate that analysis into the action by the commission.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her contribution and all the members who participated in the discussion tonight for the lively debate. very briefly i would like to say – as a short reaction to the different issues which were raised – that i believe that there are four basic elements in the fight against corruption and fraud in the european union. the first – and this links to the question of prevention – is full transparency. there is no fraud and there is no corruption if there is transparency. this is, for example, about the mandatory lobbying register in the eu, but there are also some worrying developments in the member states regarding transparency. this is also about better reporting by the national authorities. the second element is enhanced cooperation between the member states. mrs macovei mentioned that it is impossible to fight against carousel fraud – vat fraud – without good cooperation between the member states and the member state authorities, which is not happening right now. the third element is strong institutions. when we talk about olaf, of course we can criticise it, but olaf cannot be effective without the rights it needs to be effective. that is why we need to strengthen olaf, for example by checking how olaf’s recommendations are respected in the member states. we also need more institutions such as the european public prosecutor’s office. the fourth, and last, one is the question of sanctions. i think that there are serious shortcomings here in the european institutions. how can we make sanctions? how can we enforce that the member states respect the rules we set up? this is essential. without this there will be no effective fight against fraud and corruption.
it's a two-card draw. i have followed the debate from the beginning and i agree with the objectives you have set. it is important for european industry, for the economy, but it is also important for european citizens in terms of data protection. one thing that has not been said in this room is that we need to protect data not just from big companies, but also from powers that have an interest in weakening europe anyway. do you see a danger in, say, moscow, where there are often threads being pulled here about the refugee crisis, that such powers might also threaten our data? can we work together to fight this? you said knowledge is power, data can be knowledge. that's your phrase, and that's why i was interested in the question, can others use our data?
madam president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very sorry. as vice chairman of the committee on culture and education, i feel it is important to emphasize that on february 28th, the academy awards, the most prestigious film award in the world, will be handed out. this year's awards ceremony was eagerly awaited by hungarians after 34 years, as a hungarian film was nominated in the best foreign language film category. his film son of saul by lászló jeles noble brought the expected hungarian and european success won the gold medal. the film has won numerous awards, including the grand prix at the cannes film festival, the golden globe award, and the independent spirit awards for best foreign language film the day before the oscars. the successes of hungarian films in recent years have been crowned by this oscar, which also enriches european film culture. it is of the utmost importance to the eu and the european parliament to support european works and at the same time this european film success is a success for hungarians and for europe as a whole.
beware, europe, because history can repeat itself! and among us, among people, there will always be those who do not see leadership as a service, but become power maniacs and do everything to although they have won power in democratic conditions, but control, prevent the functioning of democratic institutions. and these political leaders, they're incredibly good at making a living out of chaos. and now that europe is indeed in many ways an institutional crisis, the prime ministers in the european council are unable to agree with each other. the prime minister of hungary comes home proud of having suspended one process after another, while the national electoral office, the institution that conducts referendums, can no longer operate legally. last week, some thugs on behalf of the government - bald, beaten-up skinheaded people - prevented the opposition from addressing the public with a political issue, a referendum issue. here we are, europe is in chaos, and hungary is madly in love with power.
the picture is the usual one: the european parliament, the plenary session, strasbourg, with some 50 of the 750 members present. but it is a special day, because it is march 8, international women's day, and we will spend the whole morning celebrating it. this is a special day, a historic day, because the european union is here today to put into practice one of its most shameful projects. it is also shameful because it seeks to exploit the suffering, pain, and discrimination experienced by women worldwide for a vile purpose. what's the low purpose? to facilitate immigration, resettlement, population migration in the following way: the mainstream, the political mainstream and, of course, the economic mainstream behind them, recognized that they were in trouble. because now people, nations are rising up and saying that this is not a refugee issue, but an immigration issue that is not within the competence of the european union. so it cannot be dealt with by the european union, it can only be dealt with as the asylum issue, the refugee issue. and what we see is that about 10 percent of the invasions and people coming into europe are actually coming from war-related areas. what did they come up with? to think about a different kind of refugee. let's say that when women are fleeing discrimination or violence in their own country, but add that they are also subject to discrimination, they have a right to come to europe, to apply for refugee status, to be granted asylum. and then their dear family has the right to subjugate these women, to join these women, by virtue of family reunification. it is true that it will be only in the next report, written by my dear old adversary, mary honeyball, that this shameful scheme will be revealed. but everything else that's going on here about women, equality, equal dignity, this and that, is just a little loophole to get this outrageous plan through. honeyball report, item 13 i would like to bring to the attention of all european citizens who fear for their country.
it's a two-card draw. i'd like to turn to the representative, a little bit, if you don't mind, a quick look at the history. there is a general consensus that since 1917, we have celebrated women's day on march 8. this day will be 100 years old next year and it has three main demands. one is women's equality in the workplace, the other is the protection of mothers and children, and the third is women's participation in society. do you agree, madam president, that next year, as the fourth pillar, we will include violence against women in our demands?
my dear officer. on women's day, the spotlight was on violence against women and the multiple vulnerabilities of refugee women. it is undeniable that women and children fleeing war and persecution in their own countries of origin and on the extremely difficult journey to the european union are exposed to a great deal of suffering and violence. we are all, of course, sensitive to the plight of these women and children. we also have important tasks, such as providing accommodation, creating sanitation facilities. the people's party therefore drafted an independent, alternative motion for a resolution in which it recorded these. it did so because the rapporteur had exceeded the powers which were assigned to him and had touched upon matters which were not within the remit of the committee on women's rights. i mean, whether it's asylum, whether it's asylum, whether it's family reunification, whether it's legal counseling. we could have been dealing with women who've been sick, who're pregnant, who're breast-feeding. it's a very big problem that we're constantly doing this, and instead of being able to help, we're actually showing how we can go beyond these powers. that's what's holding up the problem-solving. i ask my colleagues to support the motion for a resolution we have tabled.
in writing. nearly half of the world's refugees, and more than one third in europe, are women. women are particularly vulnerable when they have to flee. they are vulnerable to the indulgence of traffickers and often to the arbitrariness of the authorities, while in many cases they are also responsible for the care of the children. that is why they need our protection and support. i welcome the fact that the report on the situation of women refugees addresses the situation of women refugees in a broad way and suggests solutions to their specific problems. of these, i think it's particularly important that women receive priority protection in refugee camps, in reception centers. provide safe places for them, with no disadvantages in terms of access to food and drinking water. it is also very important that refugee women have continuous access to medical assistance and emotional support to deal with trauma. it is also crucial that refugee women receive extensive information about their rights, their duties, their opportunities throughout the asylum process, in their mother tongue, of course. far from their homes, often separated from their families, they have little chance of remaining completely vulnerable. we also need to ensure that every refugee girl receives a proper education, and that women are given opportunities to be trained and educated during integration. some of my colleagues oppose the proposal, saying that it is too expensive to implement and that it interferes too much with the member states' tasks. i don't see it that way. i believe that providing equal opportunities for women, including refugees, is a fundamental moral obligation that we cannot shirk.
in writing. in the face of the refugee crisis gripping europe, many member state governments have unfortunately only proved by their actions that they do not see the tragic human fates behind the statistical figures. there is a government that spends massive amounts of public money to incite hatred, to instill fear in those seeking asylum in our country. the crisis has certainly taught europeans one thing: that, however difficult it may be, we must be human in inhumanity. about half of the world's refugees are women or girls. deprived of the protection afforded by their homes, governments and often their families, women and girls are increasingly vulnerable to various dangers. in addition to the hardships of flight, they often face harassment or indifference from officials, and often face sexual harassment, often in environments where they are supposedly safe. despite the establishment of the common european asylum system, the laws, policies and practices of the member states remain significantly different and there are significant gaps in the protection of women seeking asylum in the union. that is why i think it is important to take a european approach to this.
my fellow members of parliament! i can't even speak for the excitement. i'm so confused as to whether our president martin schulz has reached the plane in phenian. i hear you're in north korea for advanced training in democracy and free speech. he ran so fast, so fast, he squeezed so hard, he'd get there and he'd keep growing. but as far as animal health is concerned, everything that is in the european union's agricultural and general economic policy and that is going towards the industrialisation of agriculture is bad for animal health. everything that's small farms, family farms, is good. because the farmer has direct contact with his animals, he can detect in time if there's an infection and take action, take action against the plague.
in writing. ‒ i voted in line with the line of the european people's party in support of the political agreement reached on the draft animal health regulation. the new regulation combines the contents of 50 existing eu legislation. it was established to simplify and increase the transparency of official veterinary procedures. it is important that the list of animal diseases registered in the european union is drawn up on the basis of transparent and scientifically based decisions. in addition, member states will be able to increase the protection of their disease-free zones. furthermore, quarantine measures, going beyond the prohibition of animal movements, may be introduced where justified.
in writing. ‒ in may 2013, the commission proposed a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on communicable animal diseases and amending and repealing certain animal health acts. in april 2014, parliament adopted the commission proposal with amendments at first reading. the austrian federal council stated that it considered the draft legislative act to be incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity (as justified in the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development). in september 2014, an interinstitutional consultation was launched on parliament's decision at first reading. the council published its position at first reading in december 2015. in its report, the committee on agriculture and rural development recommends that parliament, at second reading, agree with the position adopted by the council at first reading and that it declare that the regulation has been adopted in accordance with the council's position. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the rejection of this animal health report, as i think it is good that we are finally dealing with a common segment of animal and public health, communicable diseases, in one report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not distorted by the current crisis. the draft also targets animal welfare and illegal trade in both cases and combines some 40 legal acts, thus also pointing towards simplification. the approach places a strong emphasis on prevention and helps professionals to keep up with scientific developments. i am glad that the issue of antibiotics is included in the report, because we have to deal with the issue of antibiotic resistance in a very high level. by linking animal health and public health, we can reduce the use of antibiotics and reduce the growth of antibiotic resistance. i think that further reduction could be achieved with alternative, non-antibiotic based medicines. the objectives set out in the report point to an effective, uniform protection system at european level, as it encourages both authorities and manufacturers to put greater emphasis on prevention and control. in my view, the decentralisation of the public health service system in hungary may be an obstacle to this effective action.
once again, the well-known eu duplicity! they're supporting the school fruit program. and it sounds really good, especially when the kids get fruit grown by local farmers -- it's really, really good. yeah, but where are the local farmers? because they didn't support the idea of local economies staying and local economies growing. they advocated cutting down the fruit trees. so there's no fruit tree, or very little, because it was cut down by the union. there are no local farms because they have been ruined by the neoliberal policies of the union, just as the whole of hungarian agriculture has been ruined. but now we're getting a little support for our students to eat fruit! thank you very much.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation and its committee-amended version, while using eu funds without co-financing from the member states, provide member states with the possibility to choose the range of products to be distributed in their schools and to prioritise local products where possible. the report also provides for the freedom to distribute special products specific to the region to schools, such as honey or olive oil and similar products. in its recommendations, it also takes care to draw attention to the so-called school fruit programme and the inclusion of individual agricultural links in training, as well as the requirement of sustainability and fair trade. it proposes that aid be allocated differentially between member states or even between regions, depending on needs and access. on these grounds, i supported the adoption of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ school milk and school fruit programmes play an important role in the eu's common agricultural policy in two ways: they help to reduce any surpluses that may accumulate in certain agricultural product lines, and they also have a major social role: every child has access to healthy milk or milk products and fruit at least once a day, as part of school meals. the latter is particularly important in terms of promoting the development of the young organism, the development of healthy eating habits within educational institutions. the eu's contribution to the co-financed programmes is currently eur 100 million per year for school milk and eur 150 million per year for school fruit. that amount is not sufficient in my opinion. that's why we're fighting with the epp members to increase the eu budget for these programs.
in writing. ‒ the majority of the hungarian people's party amendments to the report were included in the report adopted by the european parliament. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take account of the accelerated payment needs of cohesion investments at the planning stage and to increase the resources to the necessary level. it is important that the commission already in the draft budget foresees an accelerated implementation of regional development programmes in the member states and increases cohesion resources proportionately. we aim to have the european commission pay in full in 2017 the bills that have been incurred in connection with the projects already implemented in the member states. the european parliament takes the view that the 2017 budget should also ensure that the resources mobilised to address the migration crisis are not used to the detriment of other existing union programmes. our proposal protects cohesion and agricultural funds when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the european parliament resolution stresses the importance of school milk and school fruit programmes. in our proposal, the european commission should examine how the 2017 budget could increase the eu funds available to finance these programmes. we firmly rejected the socialist initiative which hypocritically invokes 'solidarity' and wants to punish member states who reject plans for the mandatory resettlement of migrants with eu budgetary resources. we know that the aim of the socialists is to deprive these member states of cohesion funds.
in writing. ‒ school milk and school fruit programmes play an important role in the eu's common agricultural policy. on the one hand, they help to eliminate any surplus crops that may accumulate in certain agricultural product lines, and on the other hand, they fulfil an important social task: every child has access to healthy milk or milk products and fruit at least once a day, as part of school meals. the eu's contribution to the co-financed programmes is currently eur 100 million per year for school milk and eur 150 million per year for school fruit. i don't think that's enough money. that's why we're fighting with the epp members to increase the eu budget for these programs. we've had our first success. the amendment tabled jointly with my colleague tamás deutsch succeeded in including a similar call to the european commission in the version of the parliament's report on the eu budget for 2017, which was voted on in the ep's committee on budgets.
in writing. ‒ in january 2014, the commission proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulations (eu) no 1308/2013 and (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. in april 2015, the committee on agriculture and rural development decided to open an interinstitutional consultation before adopting its report to be submitted by parliament in the preparation of its position at first reading. in january 2016, the committee on agriculture and rural development endorsed the text adopted in the interinstitutional negotiations and in its report recommends that parliament adopt the draft regulation at first reading, as amended accordingly. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i believe that encouraging children to eat healthy food is essential, which is why i voted in favour of the report. in the future, a package of meals for milk, fruit and vegetables and bananas will be introduced as a common programme in educational institutions. on the one hand, i am glad that there is a unified eu-wide approach, because the eu is much more effective in certain matters than the member states individually. on the other hand, i think it is a shame that some member states are unable to solve this problem on their own and are therefore giving up on children. i believe that the inaction of the member states can only be remedied by a united action at eu level. public consultation is required in the implementation of the programme in the member states, thus ensuring the use of high quality local products in the programme. it is unfortunate that some member states are unable to tackle this on their own and are thus sacrificing the health of children. the hungarian government not only cannot solve the problem of healthy child nutrition, but it is also imposing a shameful 27% vat on food, including products intended for children's nutrition. the central logic behind the programme is that we should not be afraid of the idea of a common eu-wide duty-free food system, but that it is time to finally implement it for the benefit of citizens.
in writing. ‒ experience gained in the application of the current programmes, the conclusions of external evaluations and subsequent analysis of the different policy options and social difficulties of the member states show that the continuation and strengthening of both school programmes is of the utmost importance. the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products is currently on a declining trend, especially among children, while the number of children who are morbidly obese is increasing due to consumption patterns that increasingly favour highly processed foods, often high in added sugar, salt, fat or additives. it is therefore important that union aid financing the allocation of certain agricultural products to children in educational establishments should promote more healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to promote the more efficient operation of europe's seaports and to contribute to better water connectivity. the modernisation of port services and operations and the increase of port investment are an essential part of the proposal. the regulation creates the necessary conditions for ports that are currently not functioning properly. it does this by applying to the 319 main sea ports identified in the ten-t guidelines, which handle 96% of european freight and 93% of passenger traffic. the commission has also been able to reach a compromise with the major political groups and to agree on key issues such as financial transparency, independent supervision and port services and infrastructure charges. the amendments on financial transparency and the freedom to provide port services are particularly important among the proposals of the pp group. the substantial changes referred to above will contribute to the better and more sustainable operation of european ports in the future, thus increasing the union's competitiveness in international shipping relations. i voted in favour of allowing the trilateral negotiations to begin.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to promote the more efficient operation of europe's seaports and to contribute to better water connectivity. the modernisation of port services and operations and the increase of port investment are an essential part of the proposal. the regulation creates the necessary conditions for ports that are currently not functioning properly. it does this by applying to the 319 main sea ports identified in the ten-t guidelines, which handle 96% of european freight and 93% of passenger traffic. the commission has also been able to reach a compromise with the major political groups and to agree on key issues such as financial transparency, independent supervision and port services and infrastructure charges. the amendments on financial transparency and the freedom to provide port services are particularly important among the proposals of the pp group. the substantial changes referred to above will contribute to the better and more sustainable operation of european ports in the future, thus increasing the union's competitiveness in international shipping relations. i voted in favour of allowing the trilateral negotiations to begin.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to promote the more efficient operation of europe's seaports and to contribute to better water connectivity. the modernisation of port services and operations and the increase of port investment are an essential part of the proposal. the regulation creates the necessary conditions for ports that are currently not functioning properly. it does this by applying to the 319 main sea ports identified in the ten-t guidelines, which handle 96% of european freight and 93% of passenger traffic. the commission has also been able to reach a compromise with the major political groups and to agree on key issues such as financial transparency, independent supervision and port services and infrastructure charges. the amendments on financial transparency and the freedom to provide port services are particularly important among the proposals of the pp group. the substantial changes referred to above will contribute to the better and more sustainable operation of european ports in the future, thus increasing the union's competitiveness in international shipping relations. i voted in favour of allowing the trilateral negotiations to begin.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to promote the more efficient operation of europe's seaports and to contribute to better water connectivity. the modernisation of port services and operations and the increase of port investment are an essential part of the proposal. the regulation creates the necessary conditions for ports that are currently not functioning properly. it does this by applying to the 319 main sea ports identified in the ten-t guidelines, which handle 96% of european freight and 93% of passenger traffic. the commission has also been able to reach a compromise with the major political groups and to agree on key issues such as financial transparency, independent supervision and port services and infrastructure charges. the amendments on financial transparency and the freedom to provide port services are particularly important among the proposals of the pp group. the substantial changes referred to above will contribute to the better and more sustainable operation of european ports in the future, thus increasing the union's competitiveness in international shipping relations. i voted in favour of allowing the trilateral negotiations to begin.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to promote the more efficient operation of europe's seaports and to contribute to better water connectivity. the modernisation of port services and operations and the increase of port investment are an essential part of the proposal. the regulation creates the necessary conditions for ports that are currently not functioning properly. the proposal covers the 319 main sea ports identified in the ten-t guidelines, which handle 96% of european freight and 93% of passenger traffic. the compromise was reached by the major political groups and agreement was reached on key issues such as financial transparency, independent supervision, infrastructure and port charges. the amendments on financial transparency and the freedom to provide port services are particularly important among the proposals of the pp group. the substantial changes referred to above will contribute to the better and more sustainable operation of european ports in the future, thus increasing the union's competitiveness in international shipping relations.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to promote the more efficient operation of europe's seaports and to contribute to better water connectivity. the modernisation of port services and operations and the increase of port investment are an essential part of the proposal. the regulation creates the necessary conditions for ports that are currently not functioning properly. it does this by applying to the 319 main sea ports identified in the ten-t guidelines, which handle 96% of european freight and 93% of passenger traffic. the commission has also been able to reach a compromise with the major political groups and to agree on key issues such as financial transparency, independent supervision and port services and infrastructure charges. the amendments on financial transparency and the freedom to provide port services are particularly important among the proposals of the pp group. the substantial changes referred to above will contribute to the better and more sustainable operation of european ports in the future, thus increasing the union's competitiveness in international shipping relations. i voted in favour of allowing the trilateral negotiations to begin.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on access to the market for port services and the establishment of a framework for financial transparency in ports. the lower house of the spanish parliament, the spanish senate, the french national assembly, the italian senate, the latvian parliament, the maltese parliament, the polish sejm, the polish senate and the swedish parliament consider that the draft is incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the committee on transport and tourism has recommended that parliament adopt the draft regulation at first reading with almost 140 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to the market for port services and the establishment of a framework for financial transparency in ports. i agree with the rapporteur that ports play a major role in the long-term competitiveness of european industries, creating added value and jobs in all coastal regions of the union. increasing their efficiency is a priority. in my view, the report has further strengthened the commission's input, which will thus contribute more effectively to a more integrated and sustainable functioning of the ten-t. i welcome amendments that emphasise making port operations safer and more environmentally sustainable. the amendments not only promote the modernisation of port services, but the rapporteur has also clearly stated the importance of social provisions governing the port labour law system and workers' rights, including better training and improved safety conditions for port workers. however, i would like to emphasise that i voted in favour of amendments nos 146 and 147 with the greatest possible weight. overall, the rapporteur's work has contributed to the efficient functioning of the ten-t network and to improving legal certainty in ports.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the functioning of ports and helps them adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and operations and the establishment of a framework to attract port investment. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices and repealing regulation (ec) no 2494/95. in its report, the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that parliament adopt the draft regulation at first reading with a substantially amended text. the amendment would remove two issues from the list of those on which the commission could decide under the regulation's powers and propose that these be directly established by the regulation. the first is to identify sub-indices of the harmonised indices of consumer prices whose proportion in the total basket is negligible, and the second is to identify sub-indices whose production can be suspended because some of them do not relate to final consumption expenditure of households or because the degree of methodological harmonisation is not yet sufficient. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the harmonised consumer price index. without high-quality, reliable statistics and their comparability, there can be no responsible economic policy management. in this way, up-to-date, comparable statistical methods are in the interest of all eu citizens. as the existing regulation on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) dates from 1995, it was indeed timely to amend it. i agree with the amendment which stresses that the single framework for harmonised consumer price indices should be adapted to current needs, inter alia by improving the relevance and comparability of the hicp. i also share the view that the legal framework should provide for more comprehensive monitoring of complementary indicators that allow for the measurement, analysis and forecasting of inflation. i also welcome the amendment on hicp flash estimates, as early information is indeed important for the monetary policy of the euro area. finally, i am also in favour of encouraging pilot studies on harmonised cost of living indices.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal for a regulation establishes a uniform framework for the development, production and publication of harmonised indices of consumer prices and house prices (hicps and hpis respectively) at eu, national and sub-national level. the hicp allows the measurement of inflation, which provides valuable information on, among other things, the deflation of economic values such as wages, pensions and interest rates, and thus forms the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore crucial that those statistics are objective, unbiased and comparable across member states and product categories. i voted in favour of the report.
my fellow members of parliament! i think that the increased action against corruption and embezzlement of public funds is a positive, promising, great thing for everyone, except for economic criminals. but we know from our recent experience in the szekler islands that this noble purpose and intention can be abused. the romanian corruption prosecutor's office and the romanian authorities clearly use these bodies for political purposes. terrorising the mayors of the city of ljubljana and other mayors in the context of political elections and preventing their political activity. in the possession of this experience i did not know this olaf present... (part of the speech was not recorded due to technical problems.) so while it gives you a chance to prevent money theft, it also gives you a chance to be used for political purposes against, say, my country, hungary.
in writing. ‒ the report has many virtues and makes sound, supportive suggestions in the face of misuse of eu funds and customs fraud. the proposal urges the commission to maintain its strict policy on interruption and suspension of payments in accordance with the relevant legal basis. this cannot be supported because it does not meet the requirements of clarity and can thus lead to arbitrary application of the law and discipline of member states acting in defence of sovereignty. a concrete example of this is the recent threat by the italian prime minister to withdraw subsidies to states that act against the influx of migrants. the report calls for the establishment of an eu prosecutor's office, which could also be used to restrict the sovereignty of member states. on the basis of all this, i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented its report entitled protection of the european union's financial interests fraud prevention annual report 2014 . in its report, the committee on budgetary control recommends that parliament take note of the report. on this basis, it concludes that the total value of irregularities reported in 2014 amounts to approximately eur 3,24 billion, which was 36% higher than in 2013, while the number of irregularities increased by 48%. it also proposes to establish that around 10% of the irregularities reported were fraudulent, involving eur 538,2 million, while the overall financial impact of non-fraudulent irregularities was 47% higher than in 2013, but decreased by 5%. calls on the commission to take full responsibility for the recovery of funds unduly paid from the union budget; it suggests that parliament should point out that non-fraudulent irregularities are often linked to a lack of knowledge of complex rules and requirements and that simplification of rules and procedures by the member states and the commission could reduce the number of such irregularities. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report because i have always considered the promotion of common european action against financial fraud, tax evasion and other financial abuse as a key issue in my work as a member of parliament. the report sets out in detail the possible causes, organisational, professional and political problems that cause significant social losses in this area in the member states and at european level. the particular importance of this issue is confirmed for me by the fact that my own country is particularly affected, in that the system of financial abuse extends to the political and administrative sphere; for this reason i particularly welcomed the fact that the report analyses the forms and causes of abuse and fraud in public procurement in the member states. in my future work as a representative, i will pay particular attention to how the experiences and suggestions set out here are applied in the practice of the hungarian authorities and the european institutions, in particular olaf.
in writing. ‒ the ep's own-initiative report summarises the main results of the eu institutions' anti-fraud policy in 2014 and examines, gives its opinion and complements the report prepared by the european commission. among the several unfortunate hungarian references in the document, one is that in 2014 the rural development sector reported the highest number of irregularities. most of these were in hungary, poland, italy and romania. i voted for the report by javor benedek.
i hardly need to explain why i did not vote for this report, if i read a typical little detail from it: 'that all internal and external eu policies should be designed to benefit boys and girls, men and women and all other gender identities'. this is the approach to gender equality in the european union's own world of values. i'm dying for someone to explain to me that it's okay to have men, women, and other gender identities. but how can we make decisions with special consideration for people whose identities we don't know? question number one. the second question is: when will they finally be so curious about the situation of hungarian nurses and other workers who earn 300 euros, vulnerable foreign currency borrowers, and those who are deprived of their right to work?
in writing. ‒ the report examines how gender equality is being implemented in the work of the european parliament. equality between women and men is a fundamental right recognised by the eu, a common value of the eu and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. in line with the values of the people's party, i consider it extremely important to promote equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination, and for this reason i support the realistic measures proposed to prevent or remedy gender inequalities. it is very important to me to support policies that aim to better reconcile work and family life. unfortunately, the report also contains a number of demands which are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and are therefore unacceptable. i couldn't support them.
in writing. ‒ in her report, mep angelika mlinar examines how gender equality is being implemented in the work of the european parliament. equality between women and men is a fundamental right recognised by the eu, a common value of the eu and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. in line with the values of the people's party, i consider it extremely important to promote equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination, and for this reason i support the realistic measures proposed to prevent or remedy gender inequalities. it is very important to me to support policies that aim to better reconcile work and family life. unfortunately, the report also contains a number of demands which are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and are therefore unacceptable. i couldn't support them.
in writing. ‒ in her report, mep angelika mlinar examines how gender equality is being implemented in the work of the european parliament. equality between women and men is a fundamental right recognised by the eu, a common value of the eu and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. in line with the values of the people's party, i consider it extremely important to promote equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination, and for this reason i support the realistic measures proposed to prevent or remedy gender inequalities. it is very important to me to support policies that aim to better reconcile work and family life. unfortunately, the report also contains a number of demands that are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and therefore unacceptable (e.g. mandatory women's quotas, lgbtiq rights). i couldn't support them.
in writing. ‒ in her report, mep angelika mlinar examines how gender equality is being implemented in the work of the european parliament. equality between women and men is a fundamental right recognised by the eu, a common value of the eu and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. in line with the values of the people's party, i consider it extremely important to promote equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination, and for this reason i support the realistic measures proposed to prevent or remedy gender inequalities. it is very important to me to support policies that aim to better reconcile work and family life. unfortunately, the report also contains a number of demands that are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and therefore unacceptable (e.g. mandatory women's quotas, lgbtiq rights). i couldn't support them.
in writing. ‒ in her report, mep angelika mlinar examines how gender equality is being implemented in the work of the european parliament. equality between women and men is a fundamental right recognised by the eu, a common value of the eu, and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives on growth, employment and social cohesion. in line with the values of the people's party, i consider it extremely important to stand up for equality between men and women and to promote the fight against discrimination. for this reason, i support the realistic measures proposed to prevent or remedy gender inequalities. furthermore, the hungarian people's party delegation attaches great importance to supporting policies aimed at better reconciling work and family life. unfortunately, the report contains a number of demands which are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, and i could not support them.
in writing. ‒ in her report, mep angelika mlinar examines how gender equality is being implemented in the work of the european parliament. equality between women and men is a fundamental right recognised by the eu, a common value of the eu and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. in line with the values of the people's party, i consider it extremely important to promote equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination, and for this reason i support the realistic measures proposed to prevent or remedy gender inequalities. it is very important to me to support policies that aim to better reconcile work and family life. unfortunately, the report also contains a number of demands that are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and therefore unacceptable (e.g. mandatory women's quotas, lgbtiq rights). i couldn't support them.
in writing. ‒ in her report, mep angelika mlinar examines how gender equality is being implemented in the work of the european parliament. equality between women and men is a fundamental right recognised by the eu, a common value of the eu and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. in line with the values of the people's party, i consider it extremely important to promote equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination, and for this reason i support the realistic measures proposed to prevent or remedy gender inequalities. it is very important to me to support policies that aim to better reconcile work and family life. unfortunately, the report also contains a number of demands that are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and therefore unacceptable (e.g. mandatory women's quotas, lgbtiq rights). i couldn't support them.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men is a fundamental right recognised by the eu, a common value of the eu and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives on growth, employment and social cohesion. the report of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities examines the application of this principle in the work of the european parliament. since 2009, a network of representatives responsible for gender equality in ep committees has been established. each member of the network was asked to complete a questionnaire to examine the activities and policy instruments in each committee for the general promotion of gender equality. the report is based on an evaluation of the responses. these responses have shed light on a number of good practices, but also on problematic cases that call into question the effectiveness of the current framework for the general promotion of gender equality. the report proposes a series of measures to strengthen and make more effective the current structure for gender equality. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, as equality between women and men is a fundamental right, a common value and a necessary condition recognised by the eu, and is essential to the achievement of the eu's objectives. gender equality is key to the protection of human rights, the functioning of democracy, respect for the rule of law, and economic growth, social inclusion and sustainability. the principle of universal equality between men and women and the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women is an internationally accepted strategy. nevertheless, the promotion of equality between women and men is one of the main weaknesses listed in the european commission's evaluation of the gender equality strategy for the period 2010-2015. in my view, the european parliament has a key role to play in addressing gender inequalities. in practice, this means promoting equal economic, social and political participation of women and men and extending the policy framework on gender equality. the proposal strengthens and makes more effective the current structure for gender equality, including through the creation of a strong interinstitutional network, on the one hand, for enhanced cooperation with national parliaments for regular exchange and contacts, and on the other hand, for a stable link with the ep's high level group on gender equality and diversity.
in writing. ‒ the principle of universal gender equality is already an internationally accepted strategy for achieving gender equality. the mainstreaming of gender equality in practice means integrating the gender dimension into the process of planning, developing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating policies, regulatory measures and spending programmes, with a view to promoting equality between men and women and combating discrimination. i voted in favour of this report in order to promote it.
madam president, let me quote section 13 of this extremely scary honeyball report: ‘gendered forms of violence and discrimination constitute persecution and should be valid reasons for seeking asylum in the eu.’ there is the trick. in all the countries of origin of the present invasion of europe, there is obviously significant discrimination against women. this discrimination is a basis for asylum, as ms honeyball wants us to accept, so basically every woman has the right to come to the eu and then she has a similarly enforceable right to family reunification. so, all the doors are open. europe is open. anybody can come to europe. watch out for this very scary report.
in writing. ‒ the report is wholly unacceptable as it seeks to extend refugee status to all women and their families in third world countries who are victims of gender-based discrimination. this is an attempt to further the immigration invasion that is choking europe, under the false guise of concern about violence against women. and with the support of family reunification, they would allow for even more legal immigration. this report is further proof that the majority of the european parliament is still unable to face the danger to european identity and culture. on the basis of all this, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ it is undeniable that women and children fleeing war and persecution are victims of various forms of violence in their countries of origin, but unfortunately also on the difficult journey to europe. the migration crisis is linked to a crisis of violence that is rooted in the area of origin and accompanies women and children on their journey. we are all sensitive to the problems of women and young girls. europe has important responsibilities, such as providing separate accommodation and sanitation for women and children, and protecting pregnant and breastfeeding mothers. unfortunately, the report has made proposals which fall within the competence of other committees and member states, but which are not backed by financial commitments or financial resources. as long as we continue to fill pages, meetings, with proposals that sound promising but are not practical, as long as we continue to ignore jurisdiction, as long as we continue to ignore border protection, it will be difficult to properly address both the migration and the violence crisis. although, in line with the values of the epp, i considered it important to draw attention to the particularly vulnerable situation of women refugees and asylum seekers and, for this reason, supported some of the proposals to remedy the problem as a compromise , i abstained in the final vote on the report, as i believe that several paragraphs of the report concern subsidiarity issues and would deprive national member states, including our own, of their powers, particularly in the handling of the refugee issue.
in writing. ‒ it is undeniable that women and children fleeing war and persecution are victims of various forms of violence in their countries of origin, but unfortunately also on the difficult journey to europe. we are all sensitive to the problems of women and young girls, and europe has important responsibilities, such as providing separate accommodation and sanitation for women and children, and protecting pregnant and breastfeeding mothers. unfortunately, the socialist rapporteur did not write about this, but he wrote proposals that fell within the competence of other committees and the member states, without any financial commitment or financial resources. as long as we fill meetings with proposals that sound humanitarian but are not practical, as long as we do not respect jurisdiction, as long as we do not protect our borders, it will be difficult to properly manage both the migration and the violence crisis. although i considered it important, in line with the values of the epp, to draw attention to the vulnerable situation of women refugees and asylum seekers and for this reason supported some of the proposals to remedy the problem, i abstained in the final vote on the report because i believe that several paragraphs of the report concern subsidiarity issues and would deprive national member states, including our own, of their powers, particularly in the treatment of refugees.
in writing. ‒ we are all sensitive to the problems of women and young girls, and europe has important responsibilities, such as providing separate accommodation and sanitation for women and children, and protecting pregnant and breastfeeding mothers. unfortunately, the socialist rapporteur did not write about this, but he wrote proposals that fell within the competence of other committees and the member states, without any financial commitment or financial resources. as long as we continue to fill pages, as long as we continue to fill sessions with proposals that sound humanitarian, but are not practical, as long as we continue to ignore jurisdiction, as long as we continue to ignore the need to protect our borders, it will be difficult to properly address both the migration and the violence crisis. although, in line with the values of the epp, i considered it important to draw attention to the particularly vulnerable situation of women refugees and asylum seekers and, for this reason, supported some of the proposals to remedy the problem as a compromise , i abstained in the final vote on the report, as i believe that several paragraphs of the report concern subsidiarity issues and would deprive national member states, including our own, of their powers, particularly in the handling of the refugee issue.
in writing. ‒ we are all sensitive to the problems of women and young girls, and europe has important responsibilities, such as providing separate accommodation and sanitation for women and children, and protecting pregnant and breastfeeding mothers. unfortunately, the socialist rapporteur did not write about this, but he wrote proposals that fell within the competence of other committees and the member states, without any financial commitment or financial resources. as long as we fill pages, as long as we fill sessions with proposals that sound humanitarian and promising but are not applicable in reality, as long as we do not respect jurisdiction, as long as we do not protect our borders, it will be difficult to properly manage both the migration and the violence crisis. although, in line with the values of the epp, i considered it important to draw attention to the particularly vulnerable situation of women refugees and asylum seekers and, for this reason, supported some of the proposals to remedy the problem as a compromise , i abstained in the final vote on the report, as i believe that several paragraphs of the report concern subsidiarity issues and would deprive national member states, including our own, of their powers, particularly in the handling of the refugee issue.
in writing. ‒ it is undeniable that women and children fleeing war and persecution are victims of various forms of violence in their countries of origin, but unfortunately also on their way to europe. the migration crisis is also linked to a crisis of violence that is rooted in the areas of origin and that continues to affect women and children. we are all sensitive to the plight of women and young girls. europe has important responsibilities, such as providing separate accommodation and sanitation for women and children, and protecting pregnant and breastfeeding mothers. unfortunately, the socialist rapporteur did not write about this, but he used the powers of other committees and member states to formulate proposals which were not backed up by any financial commitment or resources. as long as we fill pages with empty promises, as long as we don't respect authority, as long as we don't protect our borders, we can't properly address the migration crisis or the violence crisis. although, in line with the values of the people's party, i considered it important to draw attention to the particularly vulnerable situation of women refugees and asylum seekers and for this reason supported some of the proposals to remedy the problem as a compromise , i abstained during the final vote on the report, as i believe that many paragraphs of the report concern subsidiarity issues.
in writing. ‒ we are all sensitive to the problems of women and young girls fleeing war and persecution. europe still has important tasks to perform, including providing separate accommodation and sanitation for women and children, and protecting pregnant and breastfeeding mothers. unfortunately, the socialist rapporteur did not write about this, but he wrote proposals that fell within the competence of other committees and the member states, without any financial commitment or financial resources. as long as we fill pages, as long as we fill sessions with proposals that sound humanitarian and promising but are not applicable in reality, as long as we do not respect jurisdiction, as long as we do not protect our borders, it will be difficult to properly manage both the migration and the violence crisis. although, in line with the values of the epp, i considered it important to draw attention to the particularly vulnerable situation of women refugees and asylum seekers and, for this reason, supported some of the proposals to remedy the problem as a compromise , i abstained in the final vote on the report, as i believe that several paragraphs of the report concern subsidiarity issues and would deprive national member states, including our own, of their powers, particularly in the handling of the refugee issue.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, half of the world's refugee population were women and girls. the special situation of women asylum seekers and the gender-related aspects of refugee situations have been generally ignored by international conventions and national asylum policies. the report by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities highlights the vulnerability of women refugees throughout their journey. gender-based violence in addition to being one of the main causes of women's flight is a constant feature of their journey to and within the union. it notes, however, that the legislation establishing the common european asylum system has not yet guaranteed uniform and gender-sensitive treatment of women seeking protection in europe. it is a position that eu refugee policy must be sensitive to the experiences of women at all stages. the report concludes that the scale of the humanitarian crisis facing europe is a cause for grave concern. such crises also exacerbate gender inequalities. at the same time, the current uncertain and confusing period also provides an opportunity to coordinate best practices in the treatment of women asylum seekers and refugees. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to include new, comprehensive and union-wide gender guidelines as part of a broad reform of migration and asylum policy. i think it's important to help the needs of women in the asylum process. the current conflicts, regional instability and human rights violations have led to an increasing number of men, women and children seeking international protection in the union. in 2014, half of the world's refugee population were women and girls, who are vulnerable throughout their journey, in countries of origin, transit and destination. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and migration to the member states, in particular on the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and migration. unfortunately, international conventions and national asylum policies have generally ignored the special situation of women asylum seekers and the gender equality issues of the refugee situation. i believe that the legislation establishing the common european asylum system should guarantee a uniform and gender-sensitive treatment of women seeking protection in europe. in my view, the european union's refugee policy must also be sensitive to the situation of women asylum seekers at all stages.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, half of the world's refugee population were women and girls. the special situation of women asylum seekers and the gender-related aspects of refugee situations have historically been largely ignored by international conventions and national asylum policies. despite the establishment of the common european asylum system, the laws, policies and practices of the member states remain significantly different and there are significant gaps in the protection of women seeking asylum in the union. i voted for the report.
it's a two-card draw. madam representative, i think you have described the situation very well. i would like to go a little further in my question: do you not see that the syrian parties involved, and the european union, and all its member countries, have a responsibility here, too? and then, unfortunately, the russian bombing now generates more refugees than the internal problems ever could. so i ask you, how do you plan to involve the russian side in this whole arrangement?
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i like it when you answer slowly, in two or three words. my question is, do you see any way to solve the many, many problems? for example, by finding some means of dealing with reluctant or even blocking member states. because not only are the problems there, but several member states are trying to block it.
while we're arguing here, for who knows how many times, at the macedonian border, refugee children are playing in the sewage. i say this to you because today, on international women's day, we should not be talking about the narrow-minded politicians who let themselves be trapped by populist and far-right politics, and think that by closing the borders, they have solved the problem. no, today we're talking about the women, the women and the children who are trapped behind closed borders, who can't go back or go forward. today, we need to think about the mothers who made perhaps the most difficult decision of their lives when they decided to leave their homes in an attempt to save their children and their own lives. to the mothers who often carry their little ones across thousands of miles, caring for them, keeping them alive. and they hope that sooner or later they will find a country where they can be raised in good, humane conditions. what is happening today in the closed borders of europe is a disgrace and a disgrace! a stampede against what we once called european humanism. we need to protect europe not from refugees, but from politicians who are more concerned about their political careers, their power, and who are therefore willing to side with anything and everyone. we in the european parliament must finally say: no country can be a member of the european union that does not participate in the common european immigration and asylum policy.
madam president, you must be gentlemen. my fellow citizens! the fact that the union has been unable to control the situation at its external borders for six months now, beyond words and deeds, is destabilising the whole of europe. but it will destabilize the western balkans with serious consequences. the uncontrolled migration along the balkan route must therefore be brought to an end and there is time for any measures to restore order at the borders. everyone is talking about the growing refugee crisis, even though we know that a fraction of the arrivals - even though the numbers are growing - are actually eligible for refugee status. solidarity and concrete help in their case can take many forms. but the majority did not flee under international law. the larger mass of illegal immigrants who start out hoping for a better life, struggle and fall prey to human traffickers, risking their own lives and the lives of their children while no member state can force them to accept them. the common sense of our citizens is therefore that the union should prove that it can control the situation at its borders and protect its external borders. so all clear messages and most urgent action are needed, and there is no time to waste.
madam president, this agreement is the first since 2003, and very timely it is too. broadly, legislation should express a political will to regulate some area and to do it as effectively as possible, but legislation does not happen by chance, as it were. its aims have to be formulated as thoughtfully as possible. that is the policy process. legislation – and i think that has been clear from the debate so far – has to avoid the extremes of under-regulation and over-regulation. to that end, while legislation is being formulated there must be wide-ranging consultation with all stakeholders, not just with the ones that have the most effective lobbying capacity. some stakeholders are smaller, but their interests too must be recognised. smes come to mind here, and not just mine. all law-making involves a political decision which is then converted into a legal outcome. this is where impact assessment and attention to implementing and delegated legislation assumes importance. this meeting of politics and law will always be a sensitive one, and politicians should be aware that it is impossible to make regulations for all contingencies. in an ideal world better legislation should be of benefit to all the citizens of europe and to european citizenship itself.
in writing.– one word about delegated acts: it is high time to solve this remaining stumbling block that the ep has been facing during almost all negotiations. whether the concessions given to council as regards members states’ expert consultation will achieve this aim – only time can tell. it is only to be hoped. since being the owner of several reports in this field, i will advise my group to examine carefully how the commitments are followed up, especially on common criteria, full alignment and common register.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. i think that when you addressed the other groups, so on behalf of the socialists, i must in any case ask a question, although it is not addressed to you alone. how do you think it is feasible to pay posted workers at least the local minimum wage or, where there is no minimum wage, to try to find at least some european average? how do you think that can be achieved?
in writing. in the context of the european commission's review of the posting of workers directive, which was one of the priorities of the dutch presidency, it is important to note that according to the latest analysis by the bruegel institute in brussels, less than half of the 1.2 million posted workers are from the eastern european countries that joined in 2004. the three largest emitters are: pl (228,000), de (227,000) and fr (144,000). any regulation affecting the social and employment sectors can only be balanced, sufficiently substantiated and proportionate. the new amendment to the legislation adopted only a year and a half ago, which is due to be implemented by the member states only this summer, is completely unreasonable and there is no and cannot be adequate comprehensive data and impact assessment on the operation of the legislation. let's look at the facts. posting workers account for less than half (0.3%) of the eu labour market, so they are not a significant group. european labour mobility is orders of magnitude smaller than that for goods or services, but it is far below that of the us or japan. this puts europe at a competitive disadvantage. moreover, the eu is gradually losing its competitive edge internationally. in 2010, the eu produced almost 30% of world gdp, and this is expected to halve by 2050. thus, any intervention in the eu must also mean preserving competitiveness and the unity of the internal market.
in writing.– i would like to thank the rapporteur ms chinnici and the epp shadow rapporteur mr csáky for the excellent work done on this important report. children are the most vulnerable members of our society and they need and deserve our protection. every year more than one million children are involved in criminal proceedings, and it is crucial that they are not left behind in our criminal law system. i am happy that hungary is active and taking the lead in creating a child-friendly justice system, with child-friendly institutions during criminal proceedings. my own pilot project from 2013, which turned out to be quite successful, aimed to the same extent at child-friendly justice systems. i support this legislative text because it reconciles the discrepancies between member states, creating a european standard on safeguards for children who are suspected or accused of having committed a criminal offence. as an epp member i am in favour of the text agreed as it ensures that the best interest of minors will be protected at all stages of proceedings.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for the cooperation that has allowed most of our amendments to his report to be incorporated into the compromises agreed in committee. we call on the european commission to take account of the accelerated payment needs of cohesion investments already at the planning stage and to raise the funds to the necessary level. it is important that the european commission already in its draft budget foresees an accelerated implementation of regional development programmes in the member states and increases cohesion resources proportionately. we aim to have the european commission pay in full in 2017 the bills that have been incurred in connection with the projects already implemented in the member states. the european parliament also believes that the 2017 budget should ensure that the resources mobilised to address the migration crisis are not used to the detriment of other existing union programmes. our proposal protects cohesion and agricultural funds when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the european parliament stresses the importance of school milk and school fruit programmes. in our proposal, the european commission should examine how the 2017 budget could increase the resources available to finance these programmes. we firmly reject the socialist initiative which hypocritically seeks to punish member states who reject plans for the mandatory resettlement of migrants with eu budgetary resources on the pretext of 'solidarity'. we know that the aim of the socialists is to deprive these member states of cohesion funds.
mr president, i would like to ask the minister, on behalf of the council, and the commissioner, on behalf of mr juncker, to be so kind as to clarify in a straightforward way for the citizens of europe what exactly the big change is we are talking about. did we, as optimists, understand correctly that the big change is that, from now on, the european union will not allow anybody from any unfortunate country to come and settle in the european union, but only refugees from countries at war? could you please answer yes or no, very briefly, as to what is the status. my second question – and european citizens are also extremely interested in this – refers to the fact that sometimes you talk about migration or migration policies, on behalf of the eu, and sometimes asylum or refugee policies. this is a factual question, not a matter of opinion, but nevertheless, for the sake of european citizens, let us clarify that the european union has nothing to do with the migration policy of individual member states. migration in general is the competence of member states. is that clear? is this a fact? do you agree that this is a fact?
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to go. i would like to ask you a question in connection with your comments, in which you mentioned cynicism and the emergence of various blackmail techniques in european politics. it is true that greece does not use this tool, turkey even more so. but there is blackmail inside, like prime minister cameron, who, of course, blackmailed the european union with his labour issues. and what do you think about the creation of this culture?
mr. president, i have to ask you... as vice president dombrovskis said, we make political decisions, and the consequences of our political decisions are assessed by our constituents. that's the way it should be. it's important to know what our constituents think about the issues. we are living in an age of crisis after crisis: economic crisis, demographic crisis, 4.5 million unemployed under 25 in the european union, and here is the migrant crisis. i think there are good examples, things that have been solved, handled well -- that's the economic crisis. when i think of the next subject of the council, the european semester, i think it's a good tool to get an insight into the state of the countries. and i'm proud that hungary has been able to go from a very difficult situation in 2010, when it was close to bankruptcy, to an economically excellent performance, to our macroeconomic indicators being sustainable, to our ability to show growth. in fact, i can say that the gender pay gap has decreased the most in hungary. and then we come to the issue of migration, the migrant crisis. i think that the agreement that was made on monday is not a perfect agreement. but i agree with mr reul, we should not complain, we should find a solution. steps must be taken to find a solution. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations. but there are still some open questions. it's an open question that we need to talk about how we think about visa liberalisation for turkey. why aren't we talking about ukraine? how do we think about a one-to-one exchange? what do we think of the three billion we're giving turkey for its efforts? and that's going to be six billion, then ten billion. where is the assurance, commissioner hahn, that we will use this resource well, that this resource will be used to its fullest potential? it is not a short-term solution that is needed, but a joint solution. in the interests of this common solution, i think we have made a good step forward. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's a two-card draw. {the first part of the speech was not recorded due to a technical problem} ...mr. president, the warning, although i think you didn't know what question i wanted to ask you. but i have to ask the vice-president of the european parliament, who is also vice-president of prime minister orbán's party. prime minister orbán opened the european council meeting with the cry: "let's not make europe out of hungary!" what does that mean in the light of the agreement you welcomed on monday? how can we not make europe of hungary? do we follow the system of erdoğan or putin?
that's a two-card answer. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. the reason mr. president warned you was because you had no idea what i was going to talk about and you already raised your blue card. it's good that you know what i'm talking about and then you put on the blue card. he asked me a question that he would like to ask the prime minister but obviously he can't. i think monday's summit is finally a step in the right direction. i think that guarding the borders, closing them, protecting them, protecting europe is a good step in the right direction. i think that instead of irresponsible statements, the common path is the way to go. and the defence of hungary is in the interest of the hungarian government and of you. and what i'm talking about, congressman, is the pre-2010 status. that's how we got here. the time before 2010, which you did, i never want to see again in hungary.
the eu-turkey summit on monday seems to offer a good basis for resolving the refugee crisis. but the important decisions are left to the march 17-18 council meeting, and they will be difficult decisions. greece needs help, but the agreement with turkey requires unacceptable compromises. mainly because of a lack of political courage. to confront the extremist, populist politicians and self-serving member states who are continuously, deliberately and systematically obstructing the common european asylum policy. they say the european union is powerless, but they are. who, for their own vile political interests, will not accept any common solution. there is no other way but to take in, distribute asylum seekers in solidarity between member states and integrate them into society. the common european system must be put into operation. the fate of the european union cannot be the prisoner of a policy of closure, of building fences and of xenophobia.
the european structure, the institutional system of the european union, is in crisis. and we've been arguing for three and a half hours about a monday summit that i don't think either of us was at. it's possible that even the highly respected minister wasn't there, and the vice-president of the commission wasn't there. or if they were there, they gave us information at the beginning that we can't judge what actually happened at the eu summit. a lot of times you feel like you should read politico because it gives you more information than you're getting in this room. i would ask that mr tusk, that any member of the commission who has been involved in the debate, whether it be the president of the commission or mr juncker himself, be here next and report back to us so that we can have a meaningful debate. because it is true that every ominous remark about the union now finding its way out of the greatest crisis europe has faced since the second world war is true. that's why we have to take each other seriously.
in writing. today, we are witnessing a protracted refugee crisis in europe that will be with us for some time. in war-torn areas, conflict seems to be unresolved and protracted crises have developed. the number of refugees will not decrease. we can only give a satisfactory answer at a common european level. our strength also depends on joint action, one of the basic conditions of which is cooperation. any partitioning that undermines joint action undermines the strength of successful joint action and causes lasting damage to the whole european community, including the peoples of europe. the problem is that on monday night hungary not only kicked european solidarity, but also caused very serious damage to the whole union, significantly weakening its external negotiating position. so now the situation is worse in the member states, including hungary. member states cannot tackle the crisis alone. if we don't help, we could create new crisis corners near our borders, dragging the problem even closer to us instead of trying to fix it at its roots. greece today, and before that italy, faced a flood of refugees. we are now leaving them behind, and next we are going to another member state in trouble whose problems we should be solving together? what if it's my country? who's going to help? this action has caused serious damage to both europeans and hungarians. if we keep this up, we're gonna be the only ones left in the world when we get in trouble.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. it would be important for both the euro and non-euro member states to join the european banking union. this is a prerequisite for the protection of depositors in banks in hungary, for example, to be similar to that of depositors in the euro area, regardless of the type of bank they are customers of. if a member state is no longer covered by the european deposit guarantee scheme, customers may move to banks based in the euro area, which offer greater protection. the spiral could bring other banks down, even financial institutions the size of otp. deposits in a member state acceding to the banking union are backed by european protection. the single european resolution fund for banks means that when a bank is in difficulty, the costs are borne not by taxpayers but by creditors, shareholders and investors. the european deposit guarantee fund (edf) provides full protection for small deposits of less than eur 100 000 in the event of a bank failure. the banking union's pillars, the bank rescue and deposit guarantee fund, can help prevent crises and make the european financial system more stable and predictable. this is not a sovereignty issue, but a matter of survival for hungarian bank depositors.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of sulphur content in certain liquid fuels. the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal provides for a simple consolidation of the existing texts without substantial changes. in its report, the committee on legal affairs therefore recommends that parliament give its consent to the proposal as amended in accordance with the recommendations of the said advisory working party. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the reduction of sulphur content in liquid fuels, which supports the related commission codification process. the european commission proposal takes account of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated procedure for the formalisation of the legislative texts. the directive combines a number of legal acts and also aims to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from individual liquid fuels. i believe that every step we take in this direction will reduce the amount of harmful substances that we put on people and the environment. for example, the directive sets maximum sulphur levels in the european union for heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel oil. this is done by allowing member state and regional variations where environmental conditions allow, and by granting concessions for combustion plants which comply with the emission limit values of directives 2001/80/ec and 2010/75/eu of the european parliament and of the council. with all this, i think we can ensure the principle of gradualness.
in writing. ‒ the legislative texts should be formalised into a single structure, as in this case, the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal submitted by the commission. as a result of its examination of the proposal, the advisory working party unanimously concluded that the proposal contains a simple, uniform structure of the existing texts without substantial changes. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of diversion of trade in certain essential medicines into the european union. the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal provides for a simple consolidation of the existing texts without substantial changes. in its report, the committee on legal affairs therefore recommends that parliament give its consent to the proposal as amended in accordance with the recommendations of the said advisory working party. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considered that the proposal in question contained a simple consolidation of the existing texts without any substantial amendment. the codified text states that price segmentation between the developed countries and the poorest developing countries is necessary to provide the poorest developing countries with basic pharmaceutical products at greatly reduced prices. these prices cannot, of course, be considered as reference prices for the same products in the markets of developed countries. the proposed codified rules are intended to prevent the importation into the union of products subject to tiered pricing by establishing appropriate derogations. i consider it an important additional element that the regulation establishes common principles on the basis of which the customs authorities of the member states and other competent authorities can initiate concrete action.
in writing. ‒ the legislative texts should be formalised into a single structure, as in this case, the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal submitted by the commission. as a result of its examination of the proposal, the advisory working party unanimously concluded that the proposal contains a simple, uniform structure of the existing texts without substantial changes. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the european union and andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information on 12 february 2016 with the aim of improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement represents an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it updates the 2004 agreement, which ensures that andorra applies measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the new agreement establishes an automatic exchange of information between the eu member states and andorra on financial accounts held by nationals of the other country on the territory of one of the countries, as from 2018, on data collected as from 1 january 2017. the aim is to address situations where taxable persons seek to conceal income or capital representing assets for which tax has not yet been paid. the aim of the agreement is to ensure the automatic exchange of information allowing full tax transparency and cooperation between tax authorities, and i have therefore supported its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the european union and andorra signed an agreement on 12 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of financial account information to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement constitutes an important step in efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and updates the 2004 agreement which ensures that andorra applies measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the new agreement establishes an automatic exchange of information between the eu member states and andorra, as from 2018, on financial accounts held by nationals of the other country in the territory of one of the countries, on data collected as from 1 january 2017. the aim is to address situations where taxable persons seek to conceal income or capital representing assets for which tax has not yet been paid. under the new agreement, the tax authorities of the member states and andorra will be able to identify the taxpayers concerned with precision and clarity; to fulfil and enforce their tax obligations in cross-border situations; to assess the likelihood of tax evasion; and to avoid unnecessary further investigations.
in writing. ‒ the eu and andorra agreed in 2004 that the principality would apply measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of interest income on savings. on 12 february 2016, an agreement was signed to establish, as from 2018, an automatic exchange of information between the member states of the union and andorra on financial accounts held by nationals of the other country in respect of data collected as from 1 january 2017. the aim is to address situations where taxable persons seek to conceal income or capital representing assets for which tax has not yet been paid. the council has submitted a proposal for a decision on the ratification of the agreement. in its report, the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol amending the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report between the european community and the principality of andorra on the taxation of interest income from savings. the report is certainly welcome and should be supported, as it endorses the updating of the 2004 agreement between the eu and andorra, which takes the union further serious steps in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. under the new agreement, andorra will apply measures equivalent to the latest eu directive on taxation of savings income and automatic exchange of information between the two parties on financial accounts from 2018. this avoids taxable persons from concealing income or capital representing assets for which tax has not yet been paid. this objective is also consistent with the ambitions of the ep's tax2 committee. the agreement is mutually beneficial, helps to curb tax evasion and ultimately serves the interests of all honest taxpayers, in particular individuals and smes.
in writing. ‒ the european union and andorra signed an agreement on 12 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of financial account information to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement ensures that andorra applies measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the new agreement establishes an automatic exchange of information between the eu member states and andorra on financial accounts held by nationals of the other country on the territory of one of the countries, as from 2018, on data collected as from 1 january 2017. the aim is to address situations where taxable persons seek to conceal income or capital representing assets for which tax has not yet been paid. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa expires on 31 march 2016. on 28 january 2016, following an open competition, the supervisory board of eiopa recommended the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director for a term of five years. on 23 february 2016, the economic and monetary committee heard mr fausto parente, who made an opening statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee. on the basis of the above, the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends in its report that parliament approve the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of eiopa. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report appointing fausto parente as executive director of eiopa for the next five-year term of office, given that the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa will expire on 31 march 2016. the decision was also particularly important and timely because the authority cannot remain leaderless simply because it has an important role, including through its continuous, high-level and consistent regulatory and supervisory role. i therefore considered it important to ensure that the authority operates smoothly by appointing a suitable candidate.
in writing. ‒ on 28 january 2016, the supervisory board of eiopa recommended, following an open call for proposals, the appointment of fausto parente as executive director for a five-year term. the economic and monetary affairs committee heard mr fausto parente, who gave an opening speech and then answered questions from the members of the committee. i supported him with my vote.
i supported the report on the procedural rights of minors. there's a problem with the expression. the report discusses children's rights, since according to the un convention on the rights of the child, anyone under 18 is a child. in our language, we speak of young people between the ages of 14 and 18. but now, under 14s can be prosecuted in certain cases. as a lawyer, i have experienced what family tragedies can lead to when a child is accused of, say, a simple theft, but has no right to a trial, no right to a defense, no right to due process, and is therefore completely vulnerable. this can't go on. so i think it's important that this report was born, and i'm happy about it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to provide procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused of committing a crime. the text voted today guarantees that the best interests of minors will be protected throughout the procedure. the most important provisions of the directive for me are the following: the right to information, the right to legal assistance, the right to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination, the right to audio-visual recording of interrogations and special safeguards in the custody of children. it is equally important to me that we be clear in the wording, so that for example 'child' as a concept clearly applies to anyone under the age of 18. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to provide procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused of committing a crime. the text voted today guarantees that the best interests of minors will be protected throughout the procedure. the most important provisions of the directive for us are the right to information, the right to legal assistance, the right to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination, the right to audio-visual recording of interrogations and special safeguards in the custody of children. it was also important for us to be clear in the wording, so that for example 'child' as a concept clearly refers to anyone under the age of 18. on behalf of fidesz, we all support the text, in agreement with the council and the commission, and it also fully respects the position of the epp.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to provide procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused of committing a crime. the text voted today guarantees that the best interests of minors will be protected throughout the procedure. the most important provisions of the directive for us are the right to information, the right to legal assistance, the right to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination, the right to audio-visual recording of interrogations and special safeguards in the custody of children. it was also important for us to be clear in the wording, so that for example 'child' as a concept clearly refers to anyone under the age of 18. on behalf of fidesz, we all support the text, in agreement with the council and the commission, and it also fully respects the position of the epp.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to provide procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused of committing a crime. the text voted today guarantees that the best interests of minors will be protected throughout the procedure. the most important provisions of the directive for us are the right to information, the right to legal assistance, the right to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination, the right to audio-visual recording of interrogations and special safeguards in the custody of children. it was also important for us to be clear in the wording, so that for example 'child' as a concept clearly refers to anyone under the age of 18. on behalf of fidesz, we all support the text, in agreement with the council and the commission, and it also fully respects the position of the epp.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to provide procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused of committing a crime. the text voted today guarantees that the best interests of minors will be protected throughout the procedure. the most important provisions of the directive for us are the right to information, the right to legal assistance, the right to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination, the right to audio-visual recording of interrogations and special safeguards in the custody of children. it was also important for us to be clear in the wording, so that for example 'child' as a concept clearly refers to anyone under the age of 18. on fidesz's part, we all support the text in agreement with the council and the commission, and it also fully respects the epp's position.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to provide procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused of committing a crime. the text voted today guarantees that the best interests of minors are protected throughout the procedure. the relevant provisions of the directive for us are the right to information, the right to legal assistance, the right to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination, the right to audio-visual recording of interrogations and special safeguards in the custody of children. it was also important for us to be clear in the wording, so that for example 'child' as a concept clearly refers to anyone under the age of 18. on behalf of fidesz, we all support the text, in agreement with the council and the commission, and this also reflects the position of the epp.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to provide procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused of committing a crime. the text voted today guarantees that the best interests of minors will be protected throughout the procedure. the most important provisions of the directive for us are the right to information, the right to legal assistance, the right to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination, the right to audio-visual recording of interrogations and special safeguards in the custody of children. it was also important for us to be clear in the wording, so that for example 'child' as a concept clearly refers to anyone under the age of 18. on behalf of fidesz, we all support the text, in agreement with the council and the commission, and it also fully respects the position of the epp.
in writing. ‒ the european commission estimates that more than 1 million children are prosecuted in the union every year. research shows that the rights of children are currently not sufficiently guaranteed at different stages of proceedings within the european union. in this context, the commission has submitted a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council to establish a limited but comprehensive list of the rights of children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings (or children subject to european arrest warrant proceedings). the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament adopt the commission's proposal at first reading, with almost 80 amendments. the vast majority of the amendments are designed to refine, extend, strengthen or clarify the rules relating to the various rights referred to in the commission proposal. it is also proposed to introduce a new article providing for remedies in the event of infringement of rights under the directive and to insert a new paragraph at the beginning of article 12 to provide for certain minimum guarantees applicable in the event of the detention of a child not covered by the commission text, including access by a person exercising parental responsibility or another appropriate adult. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to introduce a european union directive to ensure that children brought before the courts of the member states receive information, legal advice and parental protection appropriate to their age. in my work as a member of parliament, i have always been strongly committed to promoting the protection of the most vulnerable groups in society, especially children. i also voted to emphasise that this priority protection is also given to the child as an accused or suspect, as the case may be. i find the catalogue of rights and guarantees relating to due process contained in the draft directive useful and, in particular in the case of children, i agree with the principle of the regulation that the main objective of the procedure or punishment should be the prevention of recidivism. the proposed legislation, in my view, provides reassuring guarantees for the separation of children from adult offenders and for the adequate training of prosecutors and judges in relation to children. i hope that our decision will make this directive another piece of european legislation that will make a real contribution to the practical implementation of legal certainty, equality and social solidarity in all the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european commission estimates that more than 1 million children are prosecuted in the union each year, representing 12% of all those involved in criminal proceedings in the same area. in addition to the figures, it is also worrying that the treatment of children under criminal proceedings varies considerably between member states. research at eu level shows that the rights of children are currently not sufficiently guaranteed at the various stages of proceedings within the european union, and the european court of human rights often finds member states guilty. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the report provides general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget and covers the commission section. it is the section that formulates the general economic policy of the union, since most of the expenditure is allocated to individual directorates-general, i.e. the commission budget essentially represents the economic policy of the eu as a whole. the report stresses that the union budget has only a limited capacity to deal with these crises through the use of the flexibility instrument agreed in the negotiations on the mff. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this is in fact true, but the report is ultimately an endorsement of the neoliberal economic policies that have been applied and failed. this has forced austerity measures on member states, which have depressed real wages and contributed to the prolongation of the economic and social crisis. the eu budget should be used in such a way as to give priority to integration and cohesion policies aimed at genuine convergence, based on social progress and solidarity, the creation and protection of fair, quality and secure jobs, and the sustainable use of natural resources. on the basis of all this, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the majority of the hungarian people's party amendments to the report were included in the report adopted by the european parliament. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take account of the accelerated payment needs of cohesion investments at the planning stage and to increase the resources to the necessary level. it is important that the commission already in the draft budget foresees an accelerated implementation of regional development programmes in the member states and increases cohesion resources proportionately. we aim to have the european commission pay in full in 2017 the bills that have been incurred in connection with the projects already implemented in the member states. the european parliament takes the view that the 2017 budget should also ensure that the resources mobilised to address the migration crisis are not used to the detriment of other existing union programmes. this proposal protects cohesion and agricultural funds when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the european parliament resolution stresses the importance of school milk and school fruit programmes. in our proposal, the european commission should examine how the 2017 budget could increase the eu funds available to finance these programmes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the majority of the hungarian people's party amendments to the report were included in the report adopted by the european parliament. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take account of the accelerated payment needs of cohesion investments at the planning stage and to increase the resources to the necessary level. it is important that the commission already in the draft budget foresees an accelerated implementation of regional development programmes in the member states and increases cohesion resources proportionately. we aim to have the european commission pay in full in 2017 the bills that have been incurred in connection with the projects already implemented in the member states. the european parliament takes the view that the 2017 budget should also ensure that the resources mobilised to address the migration crisis are not used to the detriment of other existing union programmes. our proposal protects cohesion and agricultural funds when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the european parliament resolution stresses the importance of school milk and school fruit programmes. in our proposal, the european commission should examine how the 2017 budget could increase the eu funds available to finance these programmes. we firmly rejected the socialist initiative which hypocritically invokes 'solidarity' and wants to punish member states who reject plans for the mandatory resettlement of migrants with eu budgetary resources. we know that the aim of the socialists is to withdraw cohesion funds from these member states!
in writing. ‒ the majority of the hungarian people's party amendments to the report were included in the report adopted by the european parliament. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take account of the accelerated payment needs of cohesion investments at the planning stage and to increase the resources to the necessary level. it is important that the commission already in the draft budget foresees an accelerated implementation of regional development programmes in the member states and increases cohesion resources proportionately. we aim to have the european commission pay in full in 2017 the bills that have been incurred in connection with the projects already implemented in the member states. the european parliament takes the view that the 2017 budget should also ensure that the resources mobilised to address the migration crisis are not used to the detriment of other existing union programmes. our proposal protects cohesion and agricultural funds when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the european parliament resolution stresses the importance of school milk and school fruit programmes. in our proposal, the european commission should examine how the 2017 budget could increase the eu funds available to finance these programmes. we firmly rejected the socialist initiative which hypocritically invokes 'solidarity' and wants to punish member states who reject plans for the mandatory resettlement of migrants with eu budgetary resources. we know that the aim of the socialists is to withdraw cohesion funds from these member states!
in writing. ‒ the majority of the hungarian people's party amendments to the report were included in the report adopted by the european parliament. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take account of the accelerated payment needs of cohesion investments at the planning stage and to increase the resources to the necessary level. it is important that the commission already in the draft budget foresees an accelerated implementation of regional development programmes in the member states and increases cohesion resources proportionately. we aim to have the european commission pay in full in 2017 the bills that have been incurred in connection with the projects already implemented in the member states. the european parliament takes the view that the 2017 budget should also ensure that the resources mobilised to address the migration crisis are not used to the detriment of other existing union programmes. our proposal protects cohesion and agricultural funds when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the european parliament resolution stresses the importance of school milk and school fruit programmes. in our proposal, the european commission should examine how the 2017 budget could increase the eu funds available to finance these programmes. we firmly rejected the socialist initiative which hypocritically invokes 'solidarity' and wants to punish member states who reject plans for the mandatory resettlement of migrants with eu budgetary resources. we know that the aim of the socialists is to withdraw cohesion funds from these member states!
in writing. ‒ the majority of the hungarian people's party amendments to the report were included in the report adopted by the european parliament. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take account of the accelerated payment needs of cohesion investments at the planning stage and to increase the resources to the necessary level. it is important that the commission already in the draft budget foresees an accelerated implementation of regional development programmes in the member states and increases cohesion resources proportionately. we aim to have the european commission pay in full in 2017 the bills that have been incurred in connection with the projects already implemented in the member states. the european parliament takes the view that the 2017 budget should also ensure that the resources mobilised to address the migration crisis are not used to the detriment of other existing union programmes. our proposal protects cohesion and agricultural funds when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the european parliament resolution stresses the importance of school milk and school fruit programmes. in our proposal, the european commission should examine how the 2017 budget could increase the eu funds available to finance these programmes. we firmly rejected the socialist initiative which hypocritically invokes 'solidarity' and wants to punish member states who reject plans for the mandatory resettlement of migrants with eu budgetary resources.
in writing. ‒ the majority of the hungarian people's party amendments to the report were included in the report adopted by the european parliament. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take account of the accelerated payment needs of cohesion investments at the planning stage and to increase the resources to the necessary level. it is important that the commission already in the draft budget foresees an accelerated implementation of regional development programmes in the member states and increases cohesion resources proportionately. we aim to have the european commission pay in full in 2017 the bills that have been incurred in connection with the projects already implemented in the member states. the european parliament takes the view that the 2017 budget should also ensure that the resources mobilised to address the migration crisis are not used to the detriment of other existing union programmes. our proposal protects cohesion and agricultural funds when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the european parliament resolution stresses the importance of school milk and school fruit programmes. in our proposal, the european commission should examine how the 2017 budget could increase the eu funds available to finance these programmes. we firmly rejected the socialist initiative which hypocritically invokes 'solidarity' and wants to punish member states who reject plans for the mandatory resettlement of migrants with eu budgetary resources. we know that the aim of the socialists is to withdraw cohesion funds from these member states!
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgets has tabled a motion for a resolution on the preparation of the 2017 budget. the proposal stresses that the budget should lay the foundations for a path towards economic growth and job creation, while the eu's economic recovery and investment levels remain below potential and the investment gap persists. it points out that the union budget is currently able to address these crises mainly through the use of all the instruments jointly agreed in the negotiations on the tpp, and in particular the specific instruments such as the flexibility instrument. it stresses, however, that in the event of further deterioration of the crisis, the full use of the existing flexibility provisions will not be sufficient to resolve the problem. reiterates in this context that the payment appropriations for the specific instruments (flexibility instrument, european union solidarity fund, european globalisation adjustment fund and emergency aid reserve) should be calculated beyond the ceilings set out in the tens, as are the commitments, and proposes that parliament should express strongly the expectation that this issue will be resolved in the context of the tens mid-term review. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget has proved to be a key resource to deal with recent crises and to meet needs not necessarily foreseen during the negotiation of the 2014-2020 ten-t. the commission's annual growth survey for 2016 strongly believes that boosting investment including a more coordinated increase in public and private investment, focusing on the europe 2020 objectives is the appropriate policy response to achieve a more balanced economic policy. i have followed the s&d group's position with interest.
although i abstained, i did not vote in favour, but i liked some of the points in this report. in particular, those which stressed the importance of subsidiarity and proportionality and the role of national parliaments in relations between the european union and the member states. why did i like it so much, and why do i recommend that my fellow parliamentarians and fellow politicians at home read this report in depth? because we have to remind our citizens again and again what subsidiarity means. that the nation states, the member states, retain their sovereignty. we are not giving up our right to decide the affairs of our own country, only in a very legally restricted area. and migration is not something that we can decide, for example, in our own state, as hungarians.
in writing. ‒ the report is based on the fact that the european parliament has repeatedly called for the 2003 interinstitutional agreement (between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission on better regulation) to be updated. however, the proposal does not contain any decisive elements, subsidiarity is not given sufficient emphasis, and the democratic deficit persists: only the commission can submit a legislative proposal. it is to be criticised that the proposal to improve the quality of legislation does not comply with the principle of transparency, that the individual points are vague, burdensome and do not involve the participation of a legal professional. there is no guarantee that the quality of legislation will improve, and no guarantee that central regulation will gradually be reduced, but instead the stealthy devolution of powers supported by the european court of justice and the commission is becoming more and more powerful. the reason why i did not reject the report, despite the foregoing, but abstained from voting, is point 12. welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on political dialogue with national parliaments are better used; stresses in this context the important role conferred on national parliaments by the treaty of lisbon and stresses that, in addition to monitoring compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, they have the opportunity to make a meaningful contribution to political dialogue and are making use of this opportunity; encourages better use of the existing subsidiarity and proportionality mechanisms laid down in the treaties;
in writing. ‒ the current interinstitutional agreement is the first revision of the legal rules of the game between the eu institutions since 2003. at the same time, this legal language and form must effectively convey the political will that created it, and this report further reinforces this. better and more effective legislation should seek to avoid both extreme over- and under-regulation. it is therefore important that all stakeholders are involved and heard in the legislative process, not just the largest but also the smallest, smes and citizens. the report gives an interpretation of the interinstitutional agreement in which the interests of smes are guaranteed; the legal form of political will is ensured by the mandatory nature of pre-decision impact assessments, and the balance between delegated and implementing acts is an important objective for institutional actors. however, the success of the interinstitutional agreement lies in its implementation. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the current interinstitutional agreement is the first revision of the legal rules of the game between the eu institutions since 2003. at the same time, this legal language and form must effectively convey the political will that created it, and this report further reinforces this. better and more effective regulation should seek to avoid both extreme over- and under-regulation. it is therefore important that all stakeholders are involved and heard in the legislative process, not just the largest but also the smallest, smes and citizens. the hübner report gives an interpretation of the interinstitutional agreement in which the interests of smes are guaranteed; the legal form of political will is ensured by the mandatory nature of the pre-decision impact assessments and the achievement of a balance between the delegated and implementing acts is an important objective for institutional actors. however, the success of the interinstitutional agreement lies in its implementation.
in writing. ‒ the current interinstitutional agreement is the first revision of the legal rules of the game between the eu institutions since 2003. at the same time, this legal language and form must effectively convey the political will that created it, and this report further reinforces this. better and more effective regulation should seek to avoid both extreme over- and under-regulation. it is therefore important that all stakeholders are involved and heard in the legislative process, not just the largest but also the smallest, smes and citizens. the hübner report gives an interpretation of the interinstitutional agreement in which the interests of smes are guaranteed; the legal form of political will is ensured by the mandatory nature of pre-decision impact assessments. however, the success of the interinstitutional agreement lies in its implementation.
in writing. the current interinstitutional agreement is the first revision of the legal rules of the game between the eu institutions since 2003. at the same time, this legal language and form must effectively convey the political will that created it, and this report further reinforces this. better and more effective legislation should seek to avoid both extreme over-regulation and under-regulation. it is therefore important that all stakeholders are involved and heard in the legislative process, not just the largest but also the smallest, smes and citizens. the hübner report gives an interpretation of the interinstitutional agreement in which the interests of smes are guaranteed; the legal form of political will is ensured by the mandatory nature of the pre-decision impact assessments and the balance between delegated and implementing acts is an important consideration for institutional actors. however, the success of the interinstitutional agreement lies in its implementation.
in writing. ‒ the current interinstitutional agreement is the first revision of the legal rules of the game between the eu institutions since 2003. at the same time, this legal language and form must effectively convey the political will that created it, and this report further reinforces this. better and more effective regulation should seek to avoid both extreme over- and under-regulation. it is therefore important that all stakeholders are involved and heard in the legislative process, not just the largest but also the smallest, smes and citizens. the hübner report gives an interpretation of the interinstitutional agreement in which the interests of smes are guaranteed; the legal form of political will is ensured by the mandatory nature of the pre-decision impact assessments and the achievement of a balance between the delegated and implementing acts is an important objective for institutional actors. however, the success of the interinstitutional agreement lies in its implementation.
in writing. ‒ the current interinstitutional agreement is the first review of cooperation between eu institutions since 2003 to consolidate and modernise current best practice. the interinstitutional agreement should effectively convey the common political will that parliament is providing to the institutions with this report. better and more effective legislation should seek to avoid both extreme over- and under-regulation. it is therefore important that all stakeholders are involved and heard in the legislative process, including smes and citizens. the hübner report gives an interpretation of the interinstitutional agreement in which the interests of smes are guaranteed; the legal form of political will is ensured by the mandatory nature of pre-decision impact assessments and the balance between delegated and implementing acts is important for institutional actors. however, the success of the interinstitutional agreement lies in its implementation.
in writing. ‒ the current interinstitutional agreement is the first revision of the legal rules of the game between the eu institutions since 2003. at the same time, this legal language and form must effectively convey the political will that created it, and this report further reinforces this. better and more effective regulation should seek to avoid both extreme over- and under-regulation. it is therefore important that all stakeholders are involved and heard in the legislative process, not just the largest but also the smallest, smes and citizens. the hübner report gives an interpretation of the interinstitutional agreement in which the interests of smes are guaranteed; the legal form of political will is ensured by the mandatory nature of the pre-decision impact assessments and the achievement of a balance between the delegated and implementing acts is an important objective for institutional actors. however, the success of the interinstitutional agreement lies in its implementation.
in writing. ‒ parliament has repeatedly called for the 2003 interinstitutional agreement to be renegotiated to take account of the new regulatory environment created by the lisbon treaty. negotiations on a new interinstitutional agreement on better regulation, formally opened on 25 june 2015, were successfully concluded on 8 december 2015, with the negotiators of the three institutions reaching a conditional agreement on the text of the new interinstitutional agreement on better regulation, approved by the conference of presidents on 16 december 2015. in its report, the constitutional affairs committee recommends that parliament approve the draft agreement. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ parliament has repeatedly called for the 2003 interinstitutional agreement to be renegotiated in order to take account of the new regulatory environment created by the lisbon treaty, consolidate existing best practices and modernise the agreement in line with the quality legislation agenda. i supported him with my vote.
if you look at the title of this report, which says 'the agreement on tobacco products' (the pmi agreement), you think that pmi is probably a small part of the eu's multi-stakeholder bureaucracy, and the acronym for it. however, upon reading the report, it turns out that this is philip morris international, a giant tobacco company. and the report reveals that the european union has contractual relations with four other tobacco companies. i have a suggestion: in every single european union country - including my own, hungary - show the students who are about to graduate only this title, that the agreement between the european union and philip morris international. and if you don't know why that's unacceptable, then you don't have the right civic skills to graduate, you have to relearn what transparency is, what corruption is, and so on.
in writing. ‒ the fight against smoking is one of the main health policy objectives in the eu member states. according to the world health organization, smoking is the number one cause of preventable disease in europe, responsible for 87% of all deaths from chronic diseases. in my view, the prevention of illicit tobacco trade is a public task which should be carried out by the state alone, in complete independence from the tobacco industry. the hungarian government is known to be committed to reducing smoking and is a leader in this field at eu level, with a number of measures that sometimes break with traditional means. in addition to the uk, ireland, france and norway, hungary has recently prepared a draft of the legal framework for the uniform packaging of cigarettes, which could be submitted to the government in early spring. since the agreement between philip morris international and the union in 2004, the market and the regulatory environment have also changed significantly. the majority of the illegal trade today is in soft white cigarettes, which these agreements cannot handle. the new legal framework established by the union tobacco products directive and the relevant protocol to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control already covers all elements of previous agreements with tobacco companies. in view of all this, i am opposed to the extension of the eu agreement with philip morris international or to any form of renewal of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ motion for a resolution on the agreement between philip morris international (pmi) and its associates and the union and its member states of 9 july 2004 on combating smuggling and counterfeiting, expiring on 9 july 2016, tabled by the gue/ngl, verts/ale, ecr, efdd, alde, epp and s&d groups. among them, the s&d, verts/ale and efdd groups on the one hand and the ppe and ecr groups on the other hand worked out a joint compromise draft. i voted in favour of the first compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution opposing the renewal of the agreement between philip morris international (pmi) and the european commission, which expires in july 2016. it can be seen that, while smuggling initially decreased as a result of the pmi agreement, the gap was soon filled by unbranded, smuggled so-called cheap white cigarettes, as economic, social and regulatory conditions changed. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken on the union market, in particular the impact of the measures taken on the union market, on the union's financial interests and on the union's financial stability. i believe that the profits of manufacturers, the traffic of smugglers and counterfeiters in the black zone and the revenue of governments from tobacco taxes are both in the sky. meanwhile, national governments, especially the orbán government, which is sweeping everything into the pockets of the big spenders, are surrounded by all sorts of corruption allegations. that is why i supported the european commission not renewing its expiring agreements in their current form, while agreeing with the approach of fighting smuggling at all levels, including the commission, with all eu and international legal instruments. this is because, in addition to the health aspects, the illegal trade in tobacco products, and in particular the trade in contraband and counterfeit cigarettes, causes the eu and its member states to lose more than eur 10 billion in revenue each year (duties, vat and excise duties).
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the agreement with pmi is to reduce the near monopoly of counterfeit pmi products on the eu's illicit tobacco market. the decrease in the smuggling of pmi products did not lead to an overall decrease in the volume of illicit products on the union market. the commission should take immediate steps to ensure full transposition of the tobacco products directive in all member states. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
mr. president, i have to ask you... daniel friebe, a swedish economist and writer who now lives in budapest, said that one of the best things about hungary is that people, unlike western europeans, still believe in conservative values. we not only believe in it, we want to make our decisions in the spirit of it. you believe in liberal values. and so for decades, they've been taking in hundreds of thousands of refugees, they've been taking in immigrants, taking on economic hardship, taking on social hardship, taking on crime. it's your choice. it's a sovereign decision by a sovereign country. but accept that there are countries that don't want to take in tens and hundreds of thousands of immigrants, that don't want to protect their own culture, that don't want to build parallel societies. hungary is like that, and you spoke about democracy, accept that we want to confirm the political decision in hungary by means of a referendum on this issue as a sovereign decision of a sovereign country.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you built your narrative around human rights. although some in this room have already mentioned corruption, the regime itself is taking all the european aid and not giving it to the people. in your opinion, is this a real situation, or is it simply that we have human rights problems? because that's what we're supposed to be thinking about in all our foreign policy maneuvers, which is conditioning. and not just in terms of human rights, but in terms of corruption.
in writing. eritrea is now a country that everyone is fleeing from whoever can. the fourth largest number of migrants to europe comes from this country. today's decision highlights that part of the country's grave security risk is that, whatever the laws say, there is no real freedom of religion in the country. according to open doors, eritrea ranks third on the list of countries where christians are most severely and most frequently subjected to atrocities, with an extreme rating. forcing seminarians into military service, banning church members from traveling, imprisoning christians - among many other things - are all part of the local reality, according to field reports by the international aid organization acn. local church leaders years ago expressed desperation in open letters about the mass flight of their followers. it is a grave mistake for the union to ignore this and to give these systems substantial development aid without taking account of human rights abuses. we cannot leave without a word in the face of today's dramatic events in the wider region. in ethiopia, extremists have looted churches, church hospitals, and child care facilities. local christian leaders were shocked to report that all of this was done by those whose churches had previously supported them with funds. in yemen, islamist gunmen brutally murdered four nuns and 15 residents of a charity founded by mother teresa. the martyrs should remind us europeans that we have a responsibility to the persecuted christians.
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, as a representative of the neighbourhood in relation to macedonia, you consistently referred to this country as macedonia, and of course you also referred to the name dispute. others, i hope not just the translations, deceive me, they call me fyrom. you think that we can enter the european union under the name of fyrom, or rather we can call it macedonia, and here the eu has a serious responsibility: it should manage the debate between a candidate and a member.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, as usual the rapporteur did a splendid job and it was a pleasure working with him. the resolution is indeed a strong one; it deserves the support of the entire house. dear colleagues, i could talk at length about the importance of implementing the june/july agreements, the urgency of implementing the necessary reforms, the need for all political actors to assume their responsibility and find ways of cooperation in the interest of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and indeed in the interest of the macedonian people, and that would be true. however, what i want to underline is that we, the european union, also have a responsibility in this, and this is not just the name issue. the name issue is one of them, but not the only one. the impotence of the council in finding the much talked about european-level, europe-wide solution to the migration crisis is one of the elements in contributing to the crisis. the ill-considered campaign promise made by the president of the commission of a digestion period, necessary before further enlargement, is another element contributing to this crisis. these are all important contributions to the loss of perspective in the entire region of the western balkans. we are actually losing the region, losing it day by day, and we are allowing it to be messed up politically. history tells us that is a decidedly bad idea.
in writing. in its 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, parliament highlighted that the political crisis in the country reflects a lack of an effective institutional system of checks and balances. the only way out of this situation is the full implementation of the przino political agreement, as stability of the political situation is key to keeping the euro-integration processes moving. however, political stability is even more valuable when you consider the enormous pressure the country is under due to the migrant crisis. it is therefore important that the european union effectively supports this candidate country and considers it a key partner in the management of the migration crisis.
madam president, on the basis of this report, we are pleased to note that, despite all the political divisions and the contradictions still alive in the process of democratization, montenegro is our partner at the forefront of the western balkans accession process, with consistently good results in the recovery process. i would draw the commission's attention to the fact that this is in itself a value that the eu should use to motivate and stabilise the country and the whole region towards european values through a more active and flexible accession negotiation strategy. first of all, of course, to restore the credibility of our own enlargement policy and then to re-energize it. let us finally move beyond the secondary treatment of enlargement policy, since in the current situation of the union we need all the positive impulses towards integration.
in writing. in line with the report before the european parliament, i welcome the progress made in the accession negotiations with montenegro and the efforts made to implement the legislation. the 2015 country reports are a balanced, objective document that highlights the achievements of the past year, but also highlights the country's shortcomings where it needs to show more significant results. montenegro's foreign policy is commendable, as the country is successfully coordinating its foreign policy with the european union. given the similarity of the conditions for accession to nato and the eu, the country's membership of nato will result in better preparedness during accession negotiations. however, the parliament's report also points out that montenegro needs to take a stronger stance against corruption, which undermines the country's democratic foundations and its social and economic development. the report also highlighted the issue of media freedom, fair and equal access to the media by political parties and media self-organisation. it is important in my field that the report acknowledges the government's commitment to extend quality early childhood education and welcomes the increase in kindergarten enrollment that has been experienced as a result of the targeted campaign. i think that in general, there is a good progress in improving the quality of education, and particularly of early childhood education, and in improving the skills of educators. since the report realistically presents the current situation in montenegro and the results achieved over the past year, i propose that it be adopted.
it's a two-card draw. i, too, can assure the honourable member that i consider the work done by the editors to be very, very thorough and very good. i would rather ask you, with regard to the future, whether you would support the european parliament to develop closer cooperation with the european medicines agency in the future, so that we are involved in the process and not just monitoring it from time to time.
on behalf of the verts/ale group mr. president, mr. commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. antoine deltour, keith harrison, guido strack, andrás horváth, and there are many more names to be mentioned. these are not just names from different member states, but fates that are linked by the fact that they have been informed of cases that affect the public interest, affect the public interest. and yet, instead of these cases being prosecuted effectively, they were being prosecuted by the authorities, they were being prosecuted by the companies. it is unacceptable that there is no comprehensive protection in europe to ensure that whistleblowers, brave people fighting corruption, get the protection they deserve. a single european directive is needed, which also sets minimum rules for member states on the minimum level of protection that we must provide for whistleblowers in the public interest in all member states, and the same level of protection must be ensured within the institutions of the european union, as we have seen in many cases that the union itself does not act to protect whistleblowers in the public interest. we must make it clear that those who risk everything for the public interest must feel that the public is on their side, that we in the european institutions are on their side. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's the answer to the yellow card question. thank you for asking. the commission's present position should be addressed first to the commission. what we have learned so far in the last period suggests that at this moment the commission has no political decision to commit itself to legislation at european level to protect whistleblowers in the public interest. in my opinion, this is unacceptable. the european institutions and the european commission should set a good example with their own rules and also with the internal rules of the european institutions and should initiate the creation of a new directive that provides adequate protection, provides minimum protection for whistleblowers in the public interest in all member states.
mr. president, let's look at a side of this case that wasn't really discussed in this debate today. and so when a virus happens, a well-known virus, a well-known virus for decades, suddenly starts causing strange diseases, i think there are other things to watch for. specifically, there was suspicion, and there were reports from many places, that the water that people use as drinking water at certain points contains the residue of a certain pesticide from a certain multinational company. i think that the commission should also take account of these links, if only because if a particular virus causes very serious diseases in a particular area in only one place, there must be another reason for it.
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, i agree with you that this is a very important achievement: banking union. although, as we've heard, it's not complete. but i would like to ask you whether you really consider it such an achievement that it lacks a few pillars, such as the third pillar: the common deposit guarantee system and, in general, a common safety net. how much do you think these things are still necessary?
mr president, the banking union is the instrument of an integration process which seeks to use the economic and banking crisis to justify the creation of an ever closer union. the five presidents outlined the characteristics of a genuine, close and fair economic and monetary union in their report published in june 2015. monetary union cannot work because you cannot have the same monetary policy for so many different countries. the trade surpluses of the core countries have created huge imbalances, and the union has been split into a group of creditor and debtor countries, and they're not trying to find a solution to this. the goal of a united europe cannot be achieved because there is no united european people to delegate to a democratic european government the management of its affairs.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, thursday, march 10, 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in kazakhstan.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, thursday, march 10, 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the situation in egypt concerning violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, namely the case of giulio regeni.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, thursday, march 10, 2016. the following shall be added to the list of the member states:
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the democratic republic of congo.
i have received seven motions for resolutions to wind up the debate. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, thursday, march 10, 2016. the vote is in. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal that the european union should ensure the importation of a total of 70 000 tonnes of tunisian olives at 0% duty into the member states of the union as a unilateral trade measure after the expiry of the current duty-free quota over two years. i recalled that tunisia is an important mediterranean partner of the eu, whose promising democratization efforts were interrupted by the serious terrorist attacks of march and june 2015 and the political uncertainty that followed, which had an impact on the country's already fragile economy. given the key role of olive production and exports in the country's economy and labour market, this unilateral trade preference could significantly help strengthen the tunisian economy, without significantly damaging the interests of eu producers or the ongoing eu-tunisia trade negotiations. i am convinced that the eu's trade decision will also provide political support for tunisia's democratic development.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015 have dealt a severe blow to an already struggling tunisian economy. in this difficult situation, the european union wishes to emphasise that it will continue to actively support tunisia, in particular its economic development. this measure will have a positive impact on a large part of the tunisian economy. the tunisian olive oil sector indirectly employs more than one million people, representing one fifth of the total agricultural employment in tunisia. with this concrete commitment, the european union is not only supporting tunisia's economic development, but also its democratic process. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products completely reworked the existing legislation, which was applied until now under directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004. the new proposal aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout the life cycle of the medicinal product. the text approved by the committee on the environment focuses on the problem of access to veterinary medicinal products, which can be solved by strengthening innovation. the market for veterinary medicinal products is small and highly fragmented, with little incentive for operators to innovate and introduce new products to the market. the draft law contains a number of important advances for our country compared to the current legislation. taking into account the characteristics of the veterinary sector, the new rules encourage the extension of already authorised preparations to additional animal species. new antimicrobials and products developed for so-called less important animal species will enjoy increased data protection. the report gives priority treatment to medicines authorised for bees, with a data protection period of 20 years. the changes could help the emergence of new antibiotics in veterinary medicine and improve the availability of products in a sector of high importance in hungary, such as beekeeping. although the draft still needs to be improved to take full account of the interests of the sectors affected by the regulation, the report provides an excellent basis for trilogues with the council. good move in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products completely reworked the existing legislation, which was applied until now under directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004. the new proposal aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout the life cycle of the medicinal product. the text approved by the committee on the environment focuses on the problem of access to veterinary medicinal products, which can be solved by strengthening innovation. the market for veterinary medicinal products is small and highly fragmented, with little incentive for operators to innovate and introduce new products to the market. the draft law contains a number of important advances for our country compared to the current legislation. taking into account the characteristics of the veterinary sector, the new rules encourage the extension of already authorised preparations to additional animal species. new antimicrobials and products developed for so-called less important animal species will enjoy increased data protection. the report gives priority treatment to medicines authorised for bees, with a data protection period of 20 years. the changes could help the emergence of new antibiotics in veterinary medicine and improve the availability of products in a sector of high importance in hungary, such as beekeeping. although the draft still needs to be improved to take full account of the interests of the sectors affected by the regulation, the report provides an excellent basis for trilogues with the council. good move in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products completely reworked the existing legislation, which was applied until now under directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004. the new proposal aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout the life cycle of the medicinal product. the text approved by the committee on the environment focuses on the problem of access to veterinary medicinal products, which can be solved by stimulating innovation. the market for veterinary medicinal products is small and highly fragmented, with a low level of incentive for innovation and the introduction of new products on the market. the draft law contains a number of important advances for our country compared to the current legislation. taking into account the characteristics of the veterinary sector, the new rules encourage the extension of already authorised preparations to additional animal species. new antimicrobials and products developed for so-called less important animal species will enjoy increased data protection. the report puts the emphasis on medicines authorised for bees, with a data protection period of 20 years. the changes could help the emergence of new antibiotics in veterinary medicine and improve the availability of products in a sector of high importance in hungary, such as beekeeping. although the draft still needs to be improved to take full account of the interests of the sectors affected by the regulation, the report provides an excellent basis for trilogues with the council.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products completely reworked the existing legislation, which was applied until now under directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004. the new proposal aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout the life cycle of the medicinal product. the text approved by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety highlights the problem of access to veterinary medicinal products, which can be solved by strengthening innovation. the market for veterinary medicinal products is small and highly fragmented, with little incentive for operators to innovate and introduce new products to the market. the draft law contains a number of important advances for our country compared to the current legislation. taking into account the characteristics of the veterinary sector, the new rules encourage the extension of already authorised preparations to additional animal species. new antimicrobials and products developed for so-called less important animal species will enjoy increased data protection. the report gives priority treatment to medicines authorised for bees, with a data protection period of 20 years. the changes could help the emergence of new antibiotics in veterinary medicine and improve the availability of products in a sector of high importance in hungary, such as beekeeping. although the draft still needs to be improved to take full account of the interests of the sectors affected by the regulation, the report provides an excellent basis for trilateral consultations with the council. good move in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products completely reworked the existing legislation, which was applied until now under directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004. the new proposal aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout the life cycle of the medicinal product. the text approved by the committee on the environment focuses on the problem of access to veterinary medicinal products, which can be solved by strengthening innovation. the market for veterinary medicinal products is small and highly fragmented, with little incentive for operators to innovate and introduce new products to the market. the draft law contains a number of important advances for our country compared to the current legislation. taking into account the characteristics of the veterinary sector, the new rules encourage the extension of already authorised preparations to additional animal species. new antimicrobials and products developed for so-called less important animal species will enjoy increased data protection. the report gives priority treatment to medicines authorised for bees, with a data protection period of 20 years. the changes could help the emergence of new antibiotics in veterinary medicine and improve the availability of products in a sector of high importance in hungary, such as beekeeping. although the draft still needs to be improved to take full account of the interests of the sectors affected by the regulation, the report provides an excellent basis for trilogues with the council. good move in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products completely reworked the existing legislation, which was applied until now under directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004. the new proposal aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout the life cycle of the medicinal product. the draft law contains a number of important advances for our country compared to the current legislation. taking into account the characteristics of the veterinary sector, the new rules encourage the extension of already authorised preparations to additional animal species. new antimicrobials and products developed for so-called less important animal species will enjoy increased data protection. the report gives priority treatment to medicines authorised for bees, with a data protection period of 20 years. the changes could help the emergence of new antibiotics in veterinary medicine and improve the availability of products in a sector of high importance in hungary, such as beekeeping. although the draft still needs to be improved to take full account of the interests of the sectors affected by the regulation, the report provides an excellent basis for trilogues with the council. good move in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on which this report, which i support, is based aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout the life cycle of the medicinal products and to regulate the applicable pharmacovigilance procedure. problems have been encountered in the application of the existing legal framework, including the lack of availability of veterinary medicinal products, administrative burdens, the functioning of the internal market and, of course, the phenomenon of antibiotic resistance. therefore, a new regulatory framework was needed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic communications networks and services. the report also calls on the european commission to develop guidance on this, which i believe is a step in the right direction. i agree with the report that the provisions for the control of antimicrobials should be much more ambitious, which could be achieved by including the definition of different types of treatment (curative, mass and preventive), a ban on the prophylactic use of antibacterial agents and alternative non-antibiotic agents. i believe it is important and i support the need to strengthen incentives to support innovation. the veterinary medicinal products market is highly fragmented, with little incentive for operators to innovate and introduce new products to the market.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products completely reworked the existing legislation, which was applied until now under directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004. the new proposal aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout the life cycle of the medicinal product. the text approved by the committee on the environment focuses on the problem of access to veterinary medicinal products, which can be solved by strengthening innovation. the market for veterinary medicinal products is small and highly fragmented, with little incentive for operators to innovate and introduce new products to the market. the draft law contains a number of important advances for our country compared to the current legislation. taking into account the characteristics of the veterinary sector, the new rules encourage the extension of already authorised preparations to additional animal species. new antimicrobials and products developed for so-called less important animal species will enjoy increased data protection. the report gives priority treatment to medicines authorised for bees, with a data protection period of 20 years. the changes could help the emergence of new antibiotics in veterinary medicine and improve the availability of products in a sector of high importance in hungary, such as beekeeping. although the draft still needs to be improved to take full account of the interests of the sectors affected by the regulation, the report provides an excellent basis for trilogues with the council. good move in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products completely reworked the existing legislation, which was applied until now under directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004. the new proposal aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout the life cycle of the medicinal product. the text approved by the committee on the environment focuses on the problem of access to veterinary medicinal products, which can be solved by strengthening innovation. the market for veterinary medicinal products is small and highly fragmented, with little incentive for operators to innovate and introduce new products to the market. the draft law contains a number of important advances for our country compared to the current legislation. taking into account the characteristics of the veterinary sector, the new rules encourage the extension of already authorised preparations to additional animal species. new antimicrobials and products developed for so-called less important animal species will enjoy increased data protection. the report gives priority treatment to medicines authorised for bees, with a data protection period of 20 years. the changes could help the emergence of new antibiotics in veterinary medicine and improve the availability of products in a sector of high importance in hungary, such as beekeeping. although the draft still needs to be improved to take full account of the interests of the sectors affected by the regulation, the report provides an excellent basis for trilogues with the council. good move in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that there are many advantages to the separation of marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products and medicinal products for human use. the report made considerable progress, for example, with the achievement of important compromises by the political groups on the authorisation and supervision of generic medicines. the report proposes amendments to the commission's proposal on several points, such as the composition and level of fees to be paid or the fixing of the remuneration paid to the competent national authorities by means of non-implementing acts. i agree that the european parliament should be fully involved in the setting of agency fees, as is the case with the legislation on pharmacovigilance activities. the fight against and the monitoring of antimicrobial resistance is also an important part of the report, and has already received considerable attention, in part in the case of medicated feed, including my own work as a shadow rapporteur. finally, i consider it important that the new measures take into account the specificities of the veterinary pharmaceutical sector and that the fees remain affordable for the veterinary pharmaceutical industry. this is important to promote the development and availability of new medicines in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important that the union and its member states make greater, coordinated efforts in schools and educational establishments to make ict an attractive vocational area. i believe that these efforts should also include measures to increase entrepreneurship and facilitate the start-up of businesses in the big data space, including through the creation of new start-ups. i would like to remind you of the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to training and team building. initiatives and funding models that encourage lifelong learning are needed. i support initiatives to introduce programming and data management subjects into national curricula. i also agree with the proposal that the union and its member states should step up their efforts to prevent highly qualified and skilled professionals from migrating to other regions outside europe. i therefore supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the data-driven economy is one of the main lines of the digital union strategy for the economic future of the european union. the current report builds on the so-called big data market. in the near future, businesses based on this will be able to create many jobs, increase competitiveness and make a significant contribution to economic growth. however, this requires that special attention be paid to the potential risks in addition to the opportunities. the report therefore also needs to include the protection of citizens' data. for this complex plan to be successful, infrastructure development must be a priority. it should also be borne in mind that these developments create new conditions on the labour market, which can be accompanied by a new pool of knowledge and adequately qualified workers. these are primarily for smes to exploit as potential big data market players. the commission has also concluded that the measures under investigation are in line with the principles of the union state aid rules. in the long term, this could facilitate the development of e-governance and e-democracy. these guidelines form the basis of the digital union and are therefore of crucial importance for the future of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's communication on the road to a thriving data-driven economy, which raises a number of valid questions about the commission's 'big data' strategy, such as common standards, interoperability, high-speed networks, high-performance computing infrastructure, consumer protection and data protection. i agree with the view that the data-driven economy requires advanced skills and could create a significant number of jobs in europe in the coming years. to do so, it is essential to strengthen partnerships between businesses and higher education and research institutions, as the report rightly points out. this will certainly encourage innovation in big data technology. i also welcome the fact that data protection has been given a high priority. the commission has also proposed that the data protection rules should be amended to ensure that the protection of personal data is not restricted to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies. the respect for fundamental rights, in particular privacy, must not be compromised.
in writing. ‒ the benefits of the data-driven economy at national and european level will have an impact on society and on all types of enterprises in the value chain. the creation of a data-driven economy is a central element of the digital single market strategy and will help europe regain its competitiveness in advanced sectors and accelerate europe's economic recovery, investment for growth and innovation across all sectors. those can only be achieved if the right business environment and tools are in place to enable the digital transformation and if those technologies comply with the union legal framework on data protection in order to address the risks and challenges associated with them, in particular with regard to fundamental rights and the protection of privacy and data protection. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ due to the continuing violation of human rights, the complete absence of the rule of law and freedom of the press, institutionalised violence, detention and torture of innocent people (including a european journalist), an estimated 5000 eritreans are forced to flee their country every month, including to the european union. the european parliament resolution expresses its concern, condemns the authoritarian measures of the eritrean government and urges the restoration of human rights protection. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the european commission to ensure that democratic reforms are implemented in eritrea and urges the international community and eritrea's development partners to put pressure on the autocratic government.
in writing. ‒ due to the continuing violation of human rights, the complete absence of the rule of law and freedom of the press, institutionalised violence, detention and torture of innocent people (including a european journalist), an estimated 5000 eritreans are forced to flee their country every month, including to the european union. the european parliament resolution expresses its concern, condemns the authoritarian measures of the eritrean government and urges the restoration of human rights protection. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the european commission to ensure that democratic reforms are implemented in eritrea and urges the international community and eritrea's development partners to put pressure on the autocratic government.
in writing. ‒ due to the continuing violation of human rights, the complete absence of the rule of law and freedom of the press, institutionalised violence, the detention and torture of innocent people (including a european journalist), an estimated 5000 eritreans are forced to flee their country every month, including to the european union. the european parliament resolution expresses its concern, condemns the authoritarian measures of the eritrean government and urges the restoration of human rights protection. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the european commission to ensure that democratic reforms are implemented in eritrea and urges the international community and eritrea's development partners to put pressure on the autocratic government.
in writing. ‒ due to the continuing violation of human rights, the complete absence of the rule of law and freedom of the press, institutionalised violence, the detention and torture of innocent people (including a european journalist), an estimated 5000 eritreans are forced to flee their country every month, including to the european union. the european parliament resolution expresses its concern, condemns the authoritarian measures of the eritrean government and urges the restoration of human rights protection. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the european commission to ensure that democratic reforms are implemented in eritrea and urges the international community and eritrea's development partners to put pressure on the autocratic government.
in writing. ‒ due to the continuing violation of human rights, the complete absence of the rule of law and freedom of the press, institutionalised violence, detention and torture of innocent people (including a european journalist), an estimated 5000 eritreans are forced to flee their country every month, including to the european union. the european parliament resolution expresses its concern, condemns the authoritarian measures of the eritrean government and urges the restoration of human rights protection. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the european commission to ensure that democratic reforms are implemented in eritrea and urges the international community and eritrea's development partners to put pressure on the autocratic government.
in writing. ‒ the continued violation of human rights, the complete absence of the rule of law and freedom of the press, institutionalised violence, the detention and torture of innocent people (including a european journalist) are forcing an estimated 5000 eritreans to flee their country every month. the european parliament resolution expresses its concern, condemns the authoritarian measures of the eritrean government and urges the restoration of human rights protection. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the european commission to ensure that democratic reforms are implemented in eritrea and urges the international community and eritrea's development partners to put pressure on the autocratic government.
in writing. ‒ due to the continuing violation of human rights, the complete absence of the rule of law and freedom of the press, institutionalised violence, the detention and torture of innocent people (including a european journalist), an estimated 5000 eritreans are forced to flee their country every month, including to the european union. the european parliament resolution expresses its concern, condemns the authoritarian measures of the eritrean government and urges the restoration of human rights protection. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the european commission to ensure that democratic reforms are implemented in eritrea and urges the international community and eritrea's development partners to put pressure on the autocratic government.
in writing. ‒ due to the continuing violation of human rights, the complete absence of the rule of law and freedom of the press, institutionalised violence, detention and torture of innocent people (including a european journalist), an estimated 5000 eritreans are forced to flee their country every month, including to the european union. the european parliament resolution expresses its concern, condemns the authoritarian measures of the eritrean government and urges the restoration of human rights protection. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the european commission to ensure that democratic reforms are implemented in eritrea and urges the international community and eritrea's development partners to put pressure on the autocratic government.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, mainly in the hope that the shocking facts it contains will finally reveal to the european institutions and governments the explanation for the relatively large number and proportion of eritrean citizens arriving via the mediterranean sea or drowning at sea while trying to escape. the report makes clear that in this case, it is not war but a brutal authoritarian regime that refuses to back down from violence, torture and humiliation against its own citizens that is driving masses to flee. on the basis of all this, i am convinced that - especially in the light of the failure of the international community's pressure to date - much more effective and urgent action is needed against such a brutal regime pursuing such an extremist policy, especially by the eu and the european external action service. i believe that this would also address one of the important causes of the migration wave that is a major challenge for the union.
in writing. ‒ eritrea has been under a state of emergency since the 1998-2000 war with ethiopia. eritrean citizens are arbitrarily detained or arrested on numerous occasions for unsustainable reasons such as criticism or opposition to the government, journalistic activity, practice of an unofficial religion, evasion or desertion of compulsory military service, cooperation with foreign organisations, attempts to leave the country or flight of a family member or without clear justification. between 2012 and mid-2015, almost twice as many eritreans applied for asylum in europe as syrians. according to the un high commissioner for refugees, more than 400,000 eritreans - 9% of the total population - have fled the country. i voted for the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ in its 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, parliament highlighted that the political crisis experienced in the recent period reflects the lack of effective institutional checks and balances in the country. the only way out of this situation, according to the report, is the full implementation of the political agreement of pristina. in line with the report, i draw attention to the importance of voting and its promotion to the highest international standards, including the guarantee of free and fair voting procedures. parliament also identified further shortcomings in the area of media freedom and media reforms. however, the report rightly highlights the achievements made, welcoming the constructive rules on regional and international cooperation and high-level cooperation with neighbouring countries for the development of the region. the country's relationship with nato can contribute to greater security and political stability in south-eastern europe. however, the increase in elite migration, especially among young people, is a cause for concern. the country's education system faces enormous challenges, and i would like to stress the need for a comprehensive analysis in this regard. the emigration of highly qualified and skilled people must be reduced. in conclusion, the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has become a balanced report, which i voted in favour of adopting.
in writing. ‒ in its 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, parliament highlighted that the political crisis situation reflects the lack of effective institutional checks and balances in the country. the only way out of this situation is the full implementation of the political agreement of pristina. the report draws attention to the importance of voting and its promotion to the highest international standards, including the guarantee of free and fair voting procedures. parliament also identified further shortcomings in the area of media freedom and media reforms. however, the report also highlights the results achieved, welcoming the constructive rules on regional and international cooperation and high-level cooperation with neighbouring countries for the development of the region. the country's relationship with nato can contribute to greater security and political stability in south-eastern europe. in conclusion, the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was a balanced report, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report assessing macedonia's preparation for european integration in 2015. the compilation also indicates that the opening of accession negotiations with a country that has already made many sacrifices in preparing for eu membership and has had to bear much of the burden of the refugee crisis is still hampered by a number of external and internal factors. i agree with the authors of the report that now that there is a real chance to ease the final internal political divisions and to accelerate the reform programme following the june snap elections, it is finally time to move beyond the period of so-called name-quarrel, an external factor that has been paralysing the accession process for a long time. i think it is important that the report recognises, in essence, that this is primarily the eu's responsibility, alongside the un's efforts, and that it is unacceptable that the enlargement process should continue to be blocked by a bilateral dispute between an eu member state and an important western balkan partner. i hope and will be urging the commission, as a representative of the ep, to work with the two parties and the other european institutions to develop a roadmap for a mutually acceptable political solution in the near future, following the report and the ep resolution.
in writing. ‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been a candidate country for eu membership for ten years and remains one of the most successful candidates in terms of adapting to the eu acquis. the prospect of eu membership is a strong incentive for further reforms, in particular in the areas of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the majority of the people support eu membership. i voted for the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ in line with the report before the european parliament, i welcome the progress made in the accession negotiations with montenegro and the efforts made to implement the legislation. the 2015 country reports are a balanced, objective document that highlights the achievements of the past year, but also highlights the country's shortcomings where it needs to show more significant results. montenegro's foreign policy is commendable, as the country is successfully coordinating its foreign policy with the european union. given the similarity of the conditions for accession to nato and the eu, the country's nato membership will result in better preparedness during accession negotiations. however, the parliament's report also points out that montenegro needs to take a stronger stance against corruption, which undermines the country's democratic foundations and its social and economic development. the report also highlighted the issue of media freedom, fair and equal access to the media by political parties and media self-organisation. it is important in my field that the report acknowledges the government's commitment to extend quality early childhood education and welcomes the increase in kindergarten enrollment that has been experienced as a result of the targeted campaign. i think that in general, there is a good progress in improving the quality of education, and particularly of early childhood education, and in improving the skills of educators. as the report realistically presents the current situation in montenegro and the achievements of the past year, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ parliament welcomes the progress made in the accession negotiations with montenegro and the efforts made to implement the legislation. the 2015 country reports are a balanced, objective document that highlights the achievements of the past year, but also highlights the country's shortcomings where it needs to show more significant results. montenegro's foreign policy is commendable, as the country is successfully coordinating its foreign policy with that of the european union. given the similarity of the conditions for accession to nato and the eu, the country's nato membership will result in better preparedness during accession negotiations. however, the parliament's report also pointed out that montenegro needs to take a stronger stance against corruption, which undermines the country's democratic foundations and its social and economic development. the report also highlighted the issue of media freedom, fair and equal access to the media by political parties and media self-organisation. as the report realistically presents the current situation in montenegro and the results achieved over the past year, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on montenegro's preparations for european integration in 2015 and on the state of accession negotiations, which gives a broadly positive and accurate picture of the country's performance. the report also points out that, despite all its political divisions and the contradictions that undoubtedly still exist in its democratization, montenegro is a leading partner of the eu in the western balkans accession process, with consistently good results in european legal harmonisation and economic and social integration. for my part, i believe that this is in itself a value that the eu should use to motivate and stabilise montenegro and the whole region towards european integration through a more active and flexible accession negotiation strategy than before. this could serve first of all to recover the credit of the european union's enlargement policy as a whole and then to re-energize it, as supported by a number of facts and arguments in the report now adopted.
in writing. ‒ further progress was made in the accession negotiations with montenegro and two new negotiating chapters (transport and energy) were opened at the intergovernmental conference in brussels on 21 december 2015. among the countries involved in the enlargement process, montenegro is the most advanced. the free, fair and transparent conduct of parliamentary elections is crucial for the country's democratic future. montenegro should demonstrate further convincing progress in the rule of law, which is a basic condition for accession to the union. i voted for the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 annual report on bankunio. the banking union is one of the eu's most important achievements since the global financial crisis. it was created with the aim of restoring confidence, promoting the growth of investment in the real economy and providing citizens with a higher level of security against the possible failures of banks and financial companies. the rapporteur gave a full picture of the performance to date of the two pillars, the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism, which are now fully operational. among the many constructive recommendations, the suggestion to extend initiatives to better finance smes to start-ups, micro-enterprises and mid-caps is particularly welcome. in addition, i also support the stabilisation of the supervisory and regulatory framework, which is an important element in restoring investor confidence. furthermore, like the rapporteur, i am in favour of the creation of an integrated european rulebook on financial regulation and consumer rights, which would replace the current complex legislation.
in writing. ‒ the banking union plays a key role in ensuring stability and restoring confidence in the euro area banks, promoting financial integration, reducing financial and moral risk within the european banking system, and contributing to the dismantling of the state-bank nexus and the promotion of risk-sharing within the monetary union. the banking union plays a key role in financing investment and, consequently, in promoting growth and job creation across the eu. i voted for it.
in writing. in view of the serious crisis in the european pig sector, which is devastating for many farmers, i find it outrageous that the european parliament is only dealing with this issue on thursday afternoon, when many of my colleagues are no longer here because of other commitments. i therefore request that the debate be repeated in the main agenda at the next part-session. i ask the european commission to adjust the intervention price for pigmeat to real production costs and to re-establish the private storage aid for pigs which has now expired.
in writing. i agree with the concerns expressed, as i believe it is important to regulate the situation of producers, not least because we have a strong common policy, the cap. i understand that we, the representatives, in the interest of the people and the producers, are raising our voices and urging a solution. solutions that can buy time, like a private storage program in the short term, or labeling processed meats in the medium term. on the other hand, consumer prices are also a problem amid the price crisis, as are hunger and malnutrition in some regions of the eu. the eu is giving huge amounts of money to agriculture. in many cases, however, this money goes not to the farmers but to wealthy landowners who simply rent the land. part of the processing industry uses raw material of uncontrolled quality from third countries. the producer can only sell his product at depressed prices, while the consumer receives the goods at a gold price. it is easy to ask the eu to take steps to lift the russian embargo, but perhaps it would be more useful to take bold steps towards tax harmonization and tax-free, affordable food. i would point out that the latter is one of the elements of the basic treaty relating to the cap. we need to implement tax harmonization in a way that increases the income of producers but also reduces the price of consumer goods. this is not a dream, but a commitment to a stronger eu that can be achieved with a common determination.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, it is my honour and a real privilege to share my hopes regarding the international roma day on behalf of my group, the european people’s party. roma affairs have social, human and economic aspects all at once. these affairs are not less important than they have been up to now. not less important than they were in 2011, when – during the hungarian presidency – a project called roma strategy was launched. hungary is proud of having called the attention of the community to those european roma competitors who should be considered as human resources but often have no chance to prove it. youngsters from the roma population have to face extra difficulties if they want to break out of their cultural or material circumstances, which are ruled by the strict tradition and tight bonds of their community. even if they manage to overcome these factors, they have to face the discriminating prejudices of society. the roma population needs special aid in this effort to be able to overcome these disadvantages and other complexes. our task is to form the attitude in society to be more respectful and adapting. the european union’s main duty is to create the professional framework through special programmes focusing on this issue. that is why the roma strategy has called on the member states to refuse all kinds of segregation, discrimination and racism. these roma programmes and invested resources can be refunded only if we take action together with them on the basis of common decisions. we have to bring together not only roma but also non-roma if we want to create sustainable projects. it is of great importance that the culture and history of roma should be integrated in the education of the youth and that the new generation does not grow up without any knowledge or with false information concerning the 10 million roma citizens in europe. europe has decided to face what it has missed so far and will pay attention to creating equal opportunities and providing early childhood aid, which is the most important action, even if the results are apparent only much later. this is how targeted school and pre-school programmes started in the member states, and this was the way to give more and more roma children the chance to get help from early childhood. as we open the doors for schools wider and wider, likewise we have to open the gates of the churches as well, so that a receptive and solidarity-based spirit can pervade roma communities. let us be proud of roma intelligence; let us give roma youngsters the opportunity to obtain degrees, and let us create the circumstances for them to work among us. in europe, the unique hungarian roma college network serves as a good example to help hundreds of roma students to get a degree. among them are doctors, researchers, teachers and artists. we started this work together; let us continue together.
in writing. every year, on 8 april, we celebrate international roma day, commemorating the day in 1971 on which the first world roma congress was held. now, 45 years later, discrimination, prejudice and social disadvantages continue to plague the roma in europe. many of them live in abject poverty, have far fewer opportunities to find employment, get a good education, health care, and can expect to live many, many years shorter lives than their non-roma compatriots. it is a shame that roma are being unlawfully evicted in many member states. it is scandalous that in many member states, instead of tackling segregation, discrimination is defended, many roma children are arbitrarily classified as having special educational needs and are forced into lower quality schools. a significant proportion of the funds allocated to roma are still not reaching the communities concerned. in the past few days, 22 meps from six different parliamentary groups and 10 roma civil society organisations have organised roma week in the european parliament, where we have organised professional and cultural events to raise awareness of the situation of europe's roma and the importance of their inclusion. we believe that the european institutions and the member states have a duty to do more to integrate the roma and to ensure equal opportunities.
this is a question for the member of parliament, julie girling. yes, i wanted to ask mrs girling that question, but i think it's part of the debate that if there's this resistance to using glyphosate, i should note, by the way, that about half of the world's agricultural use of glyphosate is the total amount of cocoa, so it's a very large amount, so there are no alternatives? is that the only solution, the glyphosate? i think there are alternatives, and we should work on them.
mr president, one of the important elements of the internal market is the respect of consumer protection rules, which of course often does not happen because consumers are unfortunately not aware, or not sufficiently aware, of the means at their disposal to enforce their rights. continuous information throughout europe is therefore essential, as is consultation with stakeholders. the common eu framework should also ensure that the single market rules are kept as up-to-date as possible. the digital innovations and thus user needs need to be continuously monitored, thus contributing to the completion of the european digital single market. i should mention that there is a hungarian development which means that you can go to the barcode with a mobile phone, to the barcode of a particular product with a camera, and it will give out the data of that product. the commission should be embracing these people.
mr president, it might be useful to teach young people about the union, if they could get a real idea of the union and its future possibilities, rather than one-sided propaganda. this report was not prepared in that way. quote: 'lack of knowledge about the union can [...] create a sense of democratic deficit and lead to the spread of euroscepticism [...]'. the lack of democracy is not a feeling, it is a fact, and eu-skepticism is not a plague, it is a catch-all term for those who do not see a bright future in the united states of europe. one of the aims of education is to prepare individuals to live in a multicultural society. no, education should strengthen national and common european identity, and the failed ideal of a multicultural society should be abandoned for good!
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank mr damian draghici for his high-quality and comprehensive report, and i appreciate his work. the european union is facing new challenges today, and it is more important than ever that schools and the public at large have a dialogue about the european union and its values, and that citizens know the benefits and the system of the european integration process. the current lack of knowledge among eu citizens about the european union and the functioning of its institutions is shown by the eurobarometer spring 2014 survey: 44% of eu citizens do not understand how the union works. it is no wonder that citizens feel alienated from the union and increasingly turn their backs on its policies and projects. we can improve this by providing citizens with better information at school age. one way to do this is to increase the eu dimension of school education, which can prepare citizens to live in an increasingly complex and globalised world. i am convinced that in today's europe there is an even greater need to know the founding pillars and values of the european union, and that knowledge and understanding of the history and values of the union and its member states are key to further peaceful coexistence, mutual understanding, tolerance and solidarity. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. the report on school learning in the european union is a very important and topical issue. the figures speak for themselves: in the last european parliament elections, only 42.61% of citizens voted (27.8% of 18-24 year olds). in the 2014 eurobarometer survey, 44% of respondents disagreed with the statement 'i understand how the union works'. under these circumstances, it is understandable that citizens feel distant from the european union and feel a democratic deficit in its decision-making. while eu knowledge is already being integrated into the education systems of several member states, there are significant differences in this respect between and within member states. in general, eu knowledge is only a small part of the curriculum. the teaching of eu knowledge is not just the imparting of specific subject knowledge. personal experiences such as youth and volunteering work, participation in the erasmus programme, visits to the eu institutions, contact with eu officials, internship opportunities are equally important. the teaching of foreign languages also plays a key role in helping to develop intercultural awareness and supporting mobility between member states. while education alone does not remove any reservations citizens may have about the union, it can strengthen their sense of belonging to the union, their sense of community and their understanding of the functioning of the eu institutions.
madam president, first of all, i'd like to thank the rapporteur for the quality of her report, and i appreciate the work she's done. learning and training mobility is very important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in an intercultural environment. this is all part of providing quality education and promoting employability. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training have an important role to play in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving, high numbers of neets and unemployment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities have been fully exploited and this mobility in the field of vocational training should therefore continue to be encouraged. greater mobility means more job opportunities, and labour market disparities mean we need to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work are needed.
madam president, please. indeed, when we talk about these issues, we can think not only about our activities in the various financial institutions, that is, the european union, but also about how well they serve our foreign policy objectives. i am convinced that europe has a clear interest in advancing peace processes in the world which could otherwise lead to ugly conflicts. so i think i would suggest that in the future we put a much greater emphasis on representing foreign policy interests, not just in general, but in particular, in terms of europe's support.
madam president, it is a long-debated issue whether member states should sell citizenship and residence permits or not. states have of course full sovereignty to decide to whom, and how, to grant their respective nationality, but of course it is eu nationality. however, recent global developments put this question into another perspective. the serious risk represented by terrorists, the worrying scale of tax evasion, and the refugee crisis, force us to revise the issue. economic citizenship programmes run by member states are just like harmful tax competition. conditions vary greatly. however, they all lack transparency and therefore represent a breeding ground for fraud, corruption and even terrorism. some countries are openly offering rich individuals and companies the opportunity for tax planning, thus assisting tax evasion, or even potential money laundering by terrorist organisations on eu territory. the fact that these schemes make it so easy for the rich to gain rights within the eu while others literally risk their lives to get here also sends a wrong message. therefore, the question arises: do we want to support tax evasion, make things easy for terrorists and maintain unequal treatment of migrants based on their financial background, or finally create a common system with strict rules and monitoring to prevent all this?
mr president while we're here debating a holistic approach to migration, at the greek-macedonian border, refugees are living in inhumane conditions. the hungarian prime minister wants to force a referendum against the quota system. refugees are hiding on greek islands to avoid being sent back to turkey, and the austrian government wants to close the brenner pass. i mention these few examples just to make clear the huge gap between the political debate here and reality. but i think there's no other way. if we want a europe that is inclusive, with regulated, controlled, legalized immigration, then we need a single, comprehensive system, a common european immigration policy. not just in the mediterranean region, but all over europe. and this report serves that purpose well and deserves support. but we must not shy away from extremist and populist forces. we must not allow terrorism, fear, xenophobia. both the commission and parliament must take far more decisive action than in the past against governments which, for their own particular interests or for nationalist motives, obstruct and sabotage the common european policy, and which refuse to accept that there is no european union without responsibility and solidarity.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you mentioned the question of relocation and that all the member countries really need to work together on this, and we agree. but i come from a country, hungary, where the hungarian government is stubbornly opposed to any such attempt, and any such agreement is blocked. i ask you: do you see a mechanism whereby the 27 member countries can get the other 28 to cooperate, or do we jump in and let it go on like this, where one country can block everything?
mr president since this report was written, we have been faced with a migration crisis like we have never seen before. and this cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor with the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. and for immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, we need to send clear, unambiguous messages. every misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation to hundreds of thousands more who risk their lives. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. we need to strengthen and protect our external borders. that is why i think it is important that, after months of inaction, decisive action along the western balkans route has relieved the pressure on immigration. we must stop the uncontrolled entry of hundreds of thousands of people into the union, as we have all seen in recent times, with its serious security risks.
mr president, could you please inform me what is the basis for discriminating against those members who do not belong to a party but who are independent and non-inscrit? why did you not give me the floor? i have been sitting here with a handful of other people – there are about a dozen people here – since 8.30, listening to the debate, and you refuse to give me the floor just because i do not belong to one of the party factions. this is very unfair. do you agree with me?
it's a two-card draw. - madam deputy! you didn't specify, but you did mention that there were a number of measures that would be needed. i think that there is malnutrition in europe, a certain degree of hunger, and especially child hunger. so increasing demand could be an important thing, and i ask you, would you agree to a measure to have a uniform, very low level of vat on food in europe?
in writing. first of all, let me thank you for the steps you and the european commission have taken to overcome the crises in the dairy and pig sectors. but the situation has not improved; it is getting worse. the highest price in europe for hungarian raw milk, which has suffered a price drop of more than 20%, is currently 24,38 euro cents per kg, which is well below the cost-of-living level. we need a solution that pulls the producer price of milk out of this hole. at the moment, i see no other solution than to adjust the intervention and reference prices. (a) on the one hand, do you support raising the intervention price for skimmed milk powder and cheese to the level of the cost of production if the milk producers taking part in intervention undertake to withdraw additional quantities of milk from the market, in particular by selling this milk/milk powder/cream/cheese, etc.? will it be transferred to charitable and relief purposes within the eu? (b) do you agree with the need to modernise immediately the income stabilisation instrument, which has proved cumbersome and bureaucratic, in order to create a successful instrument such as the injury insurance and the dairy product protection insurance in the usa?
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to consolidate the existing text of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (market access regulation) into a single text. the annex contains the general rules for economic partnership agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of partnership agreements with acp (african, caribbean and pacific) states. annex 1 to the regulation contains the list of states to which it applies. the agreements covered by this regulation are intended to lay down rules for products originating in certain member states. under the current commission proposal, the european parliament, on the basis of article 290 tfeu, empowers the commission to amend the annex to the regulation in order to remove from the list those states with which the agreement has already been concluded. in addition to the current proposal for amendment, the regulation has been amended several times in recent years and it was therefore appropriate to consolidate each of those amendments into a single text.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to consolidate the existing text of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (market access regulation) into a single text. the regulation lays down the general rules for economic partnership agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of partnership agreements with acp (african, caribbean and pacific) states. annex 1 to the regulation contains the list of states to which it applies. the agreements covered by this regulation are intended to lay down rules for products originating in certain member states. under the current commission proposal, the european parliament, on the basis of article 290 tfeu, empowers the commission to amend the annex to the regulation in order to remove from the list those states with which the agreement has already been concluded. in addition to the current proposal for amendment, the regulation has been amended several times in recent years and it was therefore appropriate to consolidate each of those amendments into a single text.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to consolidate the existing text of the market access regulation. this regulation lays down the general rules for economic partnership agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of partnership agreements with acp (african, caribbean and pacific) states. annex 1 to the regulation contains the list of states to which it applies. the agreements covered by this regulation are intended to lay down rules for products originating in certain member states. under the current commission proposal, the european parliament, on the basis of article 290 tfeu, authorises the commission to amend the annex to the regulation in order to remove from the list those states with which the agreement has already been concluded. in addition to the current proposal for amendment, the regulation has been amended several times in recent years and it was therefore appropriate to consolidate each of those amendments into a single text.
in writing. ‒ i accept the report as the unified structuring and reformulation of temporary market access without tariffs and quotas is key to the eu's support for global free trade. we want to continue the harmonisation under the market access regulation, which currently lists 27 countries. our aim is to ensure that the union rules are transparent, clear and simplified, and that products from acp states can benefit from this, where appropriate, in accordance with wto rules.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to consolidate the existing text of the market access regulation. this regulation lays down the general rules for economic partnership agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of partnership agreements with acp (african, caribbean and pacific) states. annex 1 to the regulation contains the list of states to which it applies. the agreements covered by this regulation are intended to lay down rules for products originating in certain member states. under the current commission proposal, the european parliament, on the basis of article 290 tfeu, authorises the commission to amend the annex to the regulation in order to remove from the list those states with which the agreement has already been concluded. in addition to the current proposal for amendment, the regulation has been amended several times in recent years and it was therefore appropriate to consolidate each of those amendments into a single text.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to consolidate the existing text of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, the so-called 'market access regulation'. this regulation lays down the general rules for economic partnership agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of partnership agreements with acp (african, caribbean and pacific) states. annex 1 to the regulation contains the list of states to which it applies. the agreements covered by this regulation are intended to lay down rules for products originating in certain member states. under the current commission proposal, the european parliament, on the basis of article 290 tfeu, empowers the commission to amend the annex to the regulation in order to remove from the list those states with which the agreement has already been concluded. in addition to the current proposal for amendment, the regulation has been amended several times in recent years and it was therefore appropriate to consolidate each of those amendments into a single text.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the arrangements for products originating in certain members of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in agreements establishing, or leading to the establishment of, economic partnership agreements (recast) the commission proposal aims to consolidate the existing text of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (market access regulation) into a single text. this regulation lays down the general rules for economic partnership agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of partnership agreements with acp (african, caribbean and pacific) states. annex 1 to the regulation contains the list of states to which it applies. the agreements covered by this regulation are intended to lay down rules for products originating in certain member states. under the current commission proposal, the european parliament, on the basis of article 290 tfeu, empowers the commission to amend the annex to the regulation in order to remove from the list those states with which the agreement has already been concluded. in addition to the current proposal for amendment, the regulation has been amended several times in recent years and it was therefore appropriate to consolidate each of those amendments into a single text.
in writing. ‒ the recasting and harmonisation of the regulation was timely, as the market access regulation, originally adopted in 2007, has been amended nine times since then. moreover, the product mix plays a significant role in the european consumer basket. in general, the objective of ensuring transparency, clarity and simplification of union legislation should be pursued in all cases.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council the adoption of a regulation applying the rules on products originating in certain african, caribbean and pacific states (acp states). the proposal concerns the harmonised structure and recasting of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 on market access. the reason for the consolidation is that the market access regulation has been amended nine times since its adoption in 2007. the recast proposal concerns two points. the eu and the southern african development community concluded an economic partnership agreement on 15 july 2014, the provisions of which will replace the corresponding provisions of the eu-south africa trade, development and cooperation agreement. the proposed amendment to article 3 (4) would allow the commission to subsequently adopt delegated acts to determine the arrangements applicable to products originating in south africa. the proposal also proposes to delete the reference to article 134 of the treaty establishing the european community in article 22, since that article has been repealed by the treaty of lisbon. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament support the commission's proposal. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to consolidate the existing text of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (market access regulation) into a single text. this regulation lays down the general rules for economic partnership agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of partnership agreements with acp (african, caribbean and pacific) states. annex 1 to the regulation contains the list of states to which it applies. the agreements covered by this regulation are intended to lay down rules for products originating in certain member states. under the current commission proposal, the european parliament, on the basis of article 290 tfeu, empowers the commission to amend the annex to the regulation in order to remove from the list those states with which the agreement has already been concluded. in addition to the current proposal for amendment, the regulation has been amended several times in recent years and it was therefore appropriate to consolidate each of those amendments into a single text.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to consolidate the existing text of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (market access regulation) into a single text. this regulation lays down the general rules for economic partnership agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of partnership agreements with acp (african, caribbean and pacific) states. annex 1 to the regulation contains the list of states to which it applies. the agreements covered by this regulation are intended to lay down rules for products originating in certain member states. under the current commission proposal, the european parliament, on the basis of article 290 tfeu, empowers the commission to amend the annex to the regulation in order to remove from the list those states with which the agreement has already been concluded. in addition to the current proposal for amendment, the regulation has been amended several times in recent years and it was therefore appropriate to consolidate each of those amendments into a single text.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the unified structure and recast of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 on imports of certain products from acp countries, the so-called market access regulation. this temporary instrument provides duty-free and quota-free access to the union market for products originating in acp countries other than those belonging to the group of least developed countries until 1 october 2016, pending the conclusion and application of wto-compliant economic partnership agreements with those countries. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of parliament's consent to the protocol. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of parliament's consent to the protocol. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of parliament's consent to the protocol. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation and agree to the conclusion of the new protocol. fisheries partnership agreements are good tools for expanding the eu's financial and technical support system, and the agreement with greenland is the eu's third most important agreement in terms of economic value. the new protocol strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland and helps to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy, using the fishery resources within greenland's fishing zone. it's in both our interests.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of parliament's consent to the protocol. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, particularly freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and marine aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of parliament's consent to the protocol. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of parliament's consent to the protocol. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a specific fisheries partnership agreement with the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland (hereinafter referred to as the 'eu/greenland fisheries partnership agreement'). the agreement entered into force on 1 january 2007, currently applies until 31 december 2018 and provides access to a wide range of fish stocks for union vessels in the greenland eez. the protocol attached to the original fisheries partnership agreement was in force from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2012, and was replaced by a protocol concluded for a period of three years from 1 january to 31 december 2015. the commission, having received a mandate from the council on 25 september 2014, held negotiations with the government of greenland and representatives of the government of denmark with a view to renewing the protocol. the new protocol was initialled on 20 march 2015 and the commission adopted the proposal for its renewal on 16 july 2015. the council submitted a draft decision on the conclusion of the new protocol. in its report, the committee on fisheries recommends that parliament agree to the council's draft. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of parliament's consent to the protocol. the common fisheries policy should pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, aquaculture and, above all, freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ the european union has concluded a number of fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries in recent years. fisheries partnership agreements provide the eu with financial and technical assistance in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks within the exclusive economic zones of partner countries. the original fisheries agreement between the eu, on the one hand, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, on the other, dates back to 1985. this agreement was in force for 10 years and was extended for a further 6 years until it was finally replaced by the fisheries partnership agreement, which is still in force. i supported the report because the new protocol is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement: it strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland. it will help to build a partnership framework in which a sustainable fisheries policy can be developed by exploiting fisheries resources in greenland's fishing zone responsibly, for example by supporting local employment. this is in the interest of both parties, in accordance with the relevant conservation and management measures and to the extent of available surplus resources. the recommendation also draws attention to some factors that need to be improved based on the protocol analysis of the previous convention, including the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks, the fight against illegal fishing, the correction of some operational difficulties, closer follow-up of scientific advice and the principle of available surplus and stricter control and adjustment of the financial contribution from the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european union (eu) has concluded a number of fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries in recent years. fisheries partnership agreements provide the eu with financial and technical assistance in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks within the exclusive economic zones of partner countries. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ international air links were based on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries until the 2002 decision of the european court of justice, which ruled that bilateral air agreements were in breach of eu law. in this context, the european commission has renegotiated the eu-macao agreements. the new agreement was signed on 23 november 2013, subject to the consent of the european parliament. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i therefore supported the agreement's entry into force as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ international air links were based on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries until the 2002 decision of the european court of justice, which ruled that bilateral air agreements were in breach of eu law. in this context, the european commission has renegotiated the eu-macao agreements. the new agreement was signed on 23 november 2013, subject to the consent of the european parliament. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i therefore supported the agreement's early entry into force.
in writing. ‒ international air links were based on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries until the 2002 decision of the european court of justice, which ruled that bilateral air agreements were in breach of eu law. in this context, the european commission has renegotiated the eu-macao agreements. the new agreement was signed on 23 november 2013, subject to the consent of the european parliament. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i therefore supported the agreement's early entry into force.
in writing. ‒ international air links were based on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries until the 2002 decision of the european court of justice, which ruled that bilateral air agreements were in breach of eu law. in this context, the european commission has renegotiated the eu-macao agreements. the new agreement was signed on 23 november 2013, subject to the consent of the european parliament. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i therefore supported the agreement's early entry into force.
in writing. ‒ international air links were based on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries until the 2002 decision of the european court of justice, which ruled that bilateral air agreements were in breach of eu law. in this context, the european commission has renegotiated the eu-macao agreements. the new agreement was signed on 23 november 2013, subject to the consent of the european parliament. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the agreement's early entry into force.
in writing. ‒ international air links were based on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries until the 2002 decision of the european court of justice, which ruled that bilateral air agreements were in breach of eu law. in this context, the european commission has renegotiated the eu-macao agreements. the new agreement was signed on 23 november 2013, subject to the consent of the european parliament. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i therefore supported the agreement's early entry into force.
in writing. ‒ international air links were based on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries until the 2002 decision of the european court of justice, which ruled that bilateral air agreements were in breach of eu law. in this context, the european commission has renegotiated the eu-macao agreements. the new agreement was signed on 23 november 2013, subject to the consent of the european parliament. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i therefore supported the agreement's early entry into force.
in writing. ‒ international air links between member states and third countries were previously governed by bilateral air transport agreements. however, the court of justice of the european union ruled in 2002 that traditional designation clauses in bilateral air transport agreements between member states infringe union law if they allow a third country to refuse, revoke or suspend the licences or authorisations of an air carrier designated by a member state which is not majority owned and effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. the commission has therefore negotiated an agreement to replace some of the provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between the member states of the union and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the agreement replaces the traditional designation clauses with an eu designation clause, which allows all eu air carriers to exercise their right of establishment, and by this change brings other provisions of bilateral agreements into line and prohibits anti-competitive behaviour. the council adopted a draft decision on the conclusion of the agreement, subject to parliament's consent. the committee on transport and tourism recommended in its report that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ international air links were based on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries until the 2002 decision of the european court of justice, which ruled that bilateral air agreements were in breach of eu law. in this context, the european commission has renegotiated the eu-macao agreements. the new agreement was signed on 23 november 2013, subject to the consent of the european parliament. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i therefore supported the agreement's early entry into force.
in writing. ‒ international air links between member states and third countries have been governed by bilateral air transport agreements. the court of justice of the european union ruled in 2002 that the traditional designation clauses in bilateral air transport agreements between member states are in breach of eu law. the commission has therefore negotiated an agreement to replace some of the provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between the member states of the union and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the agreement was signed on 23 november 2013. the council shall require the consent of the european parliament for the conclusion of this agreement. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the minimum rates for vat are justified by the fact that for crossborder purchases below a certain threshold, vat is still payable in the country of origin rather than in the country of destination. the minimum standard rate of taxation applicable in all member states which is currently in force therefore serves as a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. given that all member states currently impose a flat rate of taxation above 15%, the current rules on a minimum flat rate of at least 15% also provide member states with room for manoeuvre for reforms aimed at reducing the flat rate, thereby broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates. in these circumstances and subject to decisions on the final form of the definitive system i agree with the commission's proposal, and have voted in favour of the report, which retrospectively maintains the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and proposes to extend the current measures for two years.
in writing. ‒ the minimum rates for vat are justified by the fact that for crossborder purchases below a certain threshold, vat is still payable in the country of origin rather than in the country of destination. the minimum standard rate of taxation applicable in all member states which is currently in force therefore serves as a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. given that all member states currently impose a flat rate of taxation above 15%, the current rules on a minimum flat rate of at least 15% also provide member states with room for manoeuvre for reforms aimed at reducing the flat rate, thereby broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates. in these circumstances and subject to decisions on the final form of the definitive system i agree with the commission's proposal, and have voted in favour of the report, which retrospectively maintains the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and proposes to extend the current measures for two years.
in writing. ‒ the minimum rates for vat are justified by the fact that for crossborder purchases below a certain threshold, vat is still payable in the country of origin rather than in the country of destination. the minimum standard rate of taxation applicable in all member states which is currently in force therefore serves as a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. given that all member states currently impose a flat rate of taxation above 15%, the current rules on a minimum flat rate of at least 15% also provide member states with room for manoeuvre for reforms aimed at reducing the flat rate, thereby broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates. in these circumstances and subject to decisions on the final form of the definitive system i agree with the commission's proposal, and have voted in favour of the report, which retrospectively maintains the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and proposes to extend the current measures for two years.
in writing. ‒ the minimum rates for vat are justified by the fact that for crossborder purchases below a certain threshold, vat is still payable in the country of origin rather than in the country of destination. the minimum standard rate of taxation applicable in all member states which is currently in force therefore serves as a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. given that all member states currently impose a flat rate of taxation above 15%, the current rules on a minimum flat rate of at least 15% also provide member states with room for manoeuvre for reforms aimed at reducing the flat rate, thereby broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates. in these circumstances and subject to decisions on the final form of the definitive system i agree with the commission's proposal, and have voted in favour of the report, which retrospectively maintains the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and proposes to extend the current measures for two years.
in writing. ‒ the minimum rates for vat are justified by the fact that for crossborder purchases below a certain threshold, vat is still payable in the country of origin rather than in the country of destination. the minimum standard rate of taxation applicable in all member states which is currently in force therefore serves as a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. given that all member states currently impose a flat rate of taxation above 15%, the current rules on a minimum flat rate of at least 15% also provide member states with room for manoeuvre for reforms aimed at reducing the flat rate, thereby broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates. in these circumstances and subject to decisions on the final form of the definitive system i agree with the commission's proposal, and have voted in favour of the report, which retrospectively maintains the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and proposes to extend the current measures for two years.
in writing. ‒ the minimum rates for vat are justified by the fact that for crossborder purchases below a certain threshold, vat is still payable in the country of origin rather than in the country of destination. the minimum standard rate of taxation applicable in all member states which is currently in force therefore serves as a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. given that all member states currently impose a flat rate of taxation above 15%, the current rules on a minimum flat rate of at least 15% also provide member states with room for manoeuvre for reforms aimed at reducing the flat rate, thereby broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates. in these circumstances and subject to decisions on the final form of the definitive system i agree with the commission's proposal, and have voted in favour of the report, which retrospectively maintains the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and proposes to extend the current measures for two years.
in writing. ‒ the minimum rates for vat are justified by the fact that for crossborder purchases below a certain threshold, vat is still payable in the country of origin rather than in the country of destination. the minimum standard rate of taxation applicable in all member states which is currently in force therefore serves as a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. given that all member states currently impose a flat rate of taxation above 15%, the current rules on a minimum flat rate of at least 15% also provide member states with room for manoeuvre for reforms aimed at reducing the flat rate, thereby broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates.
in writing. ‒ the minimum rates for vat are justified by the fact that for crossborder purchases below a certain threshold, vat is still payable in the country of origin rather than in the country of destination. the minimum standard rate of taxation applicable in all member states which is currently in force therefore serves as a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. given that all member states currently impose a flat rate of taxation above 15%, the current rules on a minimum flat rate of at least 15% also provide member states with room for manoeuvre for reforms aimed at reducing the flat rate, thereby broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates. in these circumstances and subject to decisions on the final form of the definitive system i agree with the commission's proposal, and have voted in favour of the report, which retrospectively maintains the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and proposes to extend the current measures for two years.
in writing. ‒ taxation is a national competence, so the setting of a general tax rate is a matter of national sovereignty, but at the same time the reduction of the possibilities of tax avoidance should be encouraged. however, the 15% rate is unjustifiably high for a number of product groups. i do not think the report is good enough in this form, and i would suggest a different methodology and a more complex approach to achieving the objectives.
in writing. ‒ directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax (vat) (vat directive) ensured that the general rate of vat for the period from 1 january 2011 to 31 december 2015 could not be lower than 15%. the commission proposed to the council to amend the vat directive to extend the scope of that directive on the minimum common key to the period from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. the council shall consult parliament before deciding on the proposal. the report of the committee on economic and financial affairs recommends that parliament support the commission's proposal, but proposes that the directive be extended to 31 december 2018 instead of 31 december 2017. i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax. the provision which expired on 31 december 2015, the extension of which was approved in the report, ensures that the general tax rate in the member states cannot be less than 15%. this rule is an important safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market under the current system. as the commission plans to publish its action plan on the definitive single market vat system in 2016, it was therefore reasonable for the commission to propose to extend the current measure for two years until 31 december 2017.
in writing. ‒ the vat directive provides that from 1 january 2011 to 31 december 2015 the general tax rate shall not be less than 15%. the provision based on article 113 tfeu requires the council to adopt provisions on the harmonisation of legislation on turnover taxes to the extent necessary for the establishment and functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortions of competition. in view of the circumstances and subject to decisions on the final form of the definitive system , the rapporteur agrees with the commission's proposal to retain the principle of a 15% minimum standard vat rate retroactively and to propose a two-year extension of the current measures. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we approve the conclusion of the agreement on strategic cooperation between europol and brazil. this agreement has the objective of supporting and strengthening action and mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime, through the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information. we support this agreement with brazil, since it’s an important contribution in the fight against international organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i approve the parliament's position on the agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol. the conclusion of this strategic agreement with brazil is important as the country plays a significant role in the fight against organised crime, trafficking in human beings, drug crime and credit card fraud and other computer-related crime activities. and let's not forget that rio de janeiro is hosting the 2016 olympic games, so crime is predicted to increase. overall, strategic cooperation between europol and brazil would help and strengthen the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 summer olympic games will be hosted by brazil in august. never before have the olympics been held in a south american city. today, international terrorism poses a very serious challenge to all countries. underestimating this could lead to unfortunate consequences such as those caused by the negligence of the belgian authorities. i believe that this cooperation should have been strengthened a long time ago, and i hope that it is not too late.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted a draft decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the federal republic of brazil and the european police office (europol). the council shall consult parliament before giving its consent. the strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, so there is no data protection problem. according to europol, brazil is playing an increasing role in the fight against organised crime and deserves special attention in the areas of counter-terrorism and asset recovery. in its report, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament support the draft council decision in order to combat organised crime and strengthen international law enforcement cooperation. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the european parliament giving its support to the council for the formal authorisation of the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. i have considered all the information that indicates that brazil is an increasingly important partner for europe in the fight against international organised crime and terrorism. the hosting of this year's olympic games in brazil is an additional element that has made it urgent to place this cooperation, the exchange of professional methods and information, and mutual advice within an organised legal framework. the european and other experiences in the fight against international terrorism show that major sporting events such as the olympics are prime targets for terrorists, and i therefore considered it appropriate that this important agreement should not be delayed in any way during the consultation of the ep.
in writing. ‒ under the current council decision on europol, the council, after consulting the european parliament, is to authorise the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations. such an agreement may cover the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement shall also include the exchange of personal data. this proposal concerns the proposed approval of the agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i support the suspension of the immunity of mr herman winkler (epp, de), which was ordered by the leipzig prosecutor general in connection with the causation of a road accident in september 2015.
in writing. ‒ the public prosecutor's office in leipzig requested the suspension of the immunity of hermann winkler in connection with the preliminary investigation into a serious traffic accident involving hermann winkler on 23 september 2015. the report of the committee on legal affairs points out that, since the criminal proceedings do not concern the expression of an opinion or a vote on the exercise of the mandate of a member of the european parliament and there is no reason to assume that the criminal proceedings were initiated with the aim of causing political damage to the member, the alleged act is clearly unrelated to hermann winkler's office as a member of the european parliament. it therefore proposes that the parliament suspend the immunity of hermann winkler in this case. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ on 25 september 2015, the public prosecutor's office in leipzig requested the suspension of the immunity of hermann winkler in connection with a preliminary investigation into a traffic accident. since the information available to the committee does not suggest that the criminal proceedings were initiated with the aim of causing political damage to the member, i supported it, following the s&d group.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the nicolai report. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report and agree with the rapporteur that we are putting marine biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction into an international, legally binding instrument. however, the new system of instruments should also include fisheries.
in writing. we have borrowed our land from our grandchildren and we can hardly claim to be good stewards of its resources. this is especially true for the living world, and thus for the preservation of the biodiversity of the seas and oceans. the report is very important for the future of all of us and should be fully supported because it is carefully and properly reasoned in order to ensure that the eu prepares the draft before the un general assembly.
in writing. ‒ the un general assembly established a preparatory commission in july 2015 with the aim of developing by the end of 2017 a binding international agreement on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, in line with the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos). the committee on fisheries report recommends that parliament welcome this step and advocate that the union play a leading role in the development and implementation of the agreement. it also stresses that the new convention should cover fisheries activities and, to this end, calls for the un fish stocks agreement (unfsa) to be incorporated into the new agreement. finally, it stresses that the new agreement must also include the possibility of accountability for all actors involved. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the un convention on the law of the sea. i welcome the decision of the un general assembly to develop, within the framework of unclos, a binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, in order to address current shortcomings. this instrument will play a key role in the conservation and sustainable use of the oceans and seas and their resources. i also support the report's call for the commission to promote and support efforts to conserve marine protected areas, which can only be achieved with the widest possible involvement of stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ marine activities are developing and multiplying at a rapid pace, so that the pressure to maintain and conserve marine biodiversity is increasing. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ today's decision concerns a very important report in this field, one could say a uniform regulation on livestock farming. the report is complementary in that it harmonises the breeding of cattle, sheep, goats, pigs and horses, the marketing of their breeding material and the breeding programme for each species within the eu, which had previously been the responsibility of the member states. improving the genetic performance of livestock farming is more successful when more individuals are carriers of genetic diversity in the population. thus, the uniform treatment of breeding material for breeding animals at eu level helps farmers to select the most appropriate genetic stock for their breeding purposes, which directly affects their livelihood. despite all these positives, i abstained from the final vote, as the majority decided by a separate vote not to exclude any discrimination against third country propagating material. this is risky, as no eu-compatible regulation is in place, which is particularly dangerous in the light of the free trade agreement currently under negotiation with the us.
in writing. ‒ i shall vote in favour of the parliament's position. we ask the commission to refer the matter back to parliament if it intends to substantially amend its proposal or to replace it with another text. the main objective of the single market is to bring together all the directives on the technical regulation of the various animal breeds into a single legal text. the commission's efforts in this area should be supported, but certain provisions should be adapted to encourage free trade in agricultural products within the union. in addition, the concept of 'species', 'breeding programme', 'protection programme' and 'threatening of the conservation or genetic diversity of a species' are missing, which are key to the interpretation of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions governing intra-union trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. the commission intends to consolidate in a single legal text all the directives aimed at regulating the breeding techniques of the various animal species in the form of this regulation, with a view to achieving a single market in this field. the commission proposes a harmonised structure for livestock farming, which will have a significant impact on the animal genetics sector in europe, beyond merely consolidating and simplifying the texts. the committee on agriculture and rural development supports this general approach in its report, but considers that some issues need to be defined more precisely or reviewed. it therefore proposes that parliament adopt the commission's draft with almost 200 amendments. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which improves and supports the commission proposal in the single framework on the principles of breeding, trade and import of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals and, to a lesser extent, other animal species. i agree that the rearing of these animals occupies a strategic place in the eu's agriculture from an economic and social point of view. i share the view that livestock farming, in addition to ensuring food security and creating jobs in the union, is also essential for the conservation of biodiversity. the report highlights that the survival of local varieties could be threatened in the absence of maintaining adequate numbers, which would be a loss in terms of genetic diversity. i believe that animal health and welfare are aspects that all operators in the breeding technology sector should take into account, in particular with regard to improving the genetic stock of breeds. cross-border cooperation between breeding and hybrid breeding organisations should be promoted, while ensuring freedom of establishment and removing obstacles to the free trade in breeding animals and their germinal products. europe - and hungary among them - has a rich local animal breed and genetic population, which breeding organisations and cooperatives play a central role in preserving and improving. i therefore believe that we need to protect their activities on the basis of clear, uniform principles.
in writing. ‒ the eu's breeding legislation aims to encourage free trade within the union and facilitate the import of breeding animals and their germinal products, ensuring that breeding programmes and programmes for the conservation of genetic resources in europe are maintained. i supported the relevant document.
mr. president, i have to go. the latest news on migration, as seen in this report: 1. they no longer differentiate between refugees and economic migrants; 2. they are looking for an opportunity to bring hungary to its knees, especially those states that do not want to allow mass immigration into their country. point three: they do this in part by emotional means, as you can see in this debate, that they are taught, our dear fellow politicians, to label as extremist, xenophobic, racist, and all sorts of other terrible labels, both states and individuals who do not want mass immigration. point four: they're looking for a legal means to bring you to your knees. i'm telling you, they're not going to find it because it's not the united states of europe yet. not a federal state that can impose its will on a member state, but a union of sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor can it provide an answer to the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. at the same time, for the masses of immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, every misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i did not vote for the report on migration adopted today, because it is unacceptable that we are told centrally who we are to put on our backs and that others decide who we should allow to enter our own member states and with whom we should live.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor can it provide an answer to the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. at the same time, for the masses of immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, every misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. the hungarian people's party delegation could not vote on the report on migration adopted today because it is unacceptable that someone central decides who we are to be blamed for and that others decide who we should let into our own member states and with whom we should live.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor can it provide an answer to the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. at the same time, for the masses of immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, every misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. the hungarian people's party delegation could not vote on the report on migration adopted today because it is unacceptable that someone central decides who we are to be blamed for and that others decide who we should let into our own member states and with whom we should live.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor can it provide an answer to the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. at the same time, for the masses of immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, every misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. the hungarian people's party delegation could not vote on the report on migration adopted today because it is unacceptable that we are told centrally who we should be putting on our backs, that others should decide who we should let into our own member states and who we should live with.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor can it provide an answer to the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. at the same time, for the masses of immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, any misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. the hungarian people's party delegation could not vote on the report on migration adopted today because it is unacceptable that we are told centrally who we should be putting on our backs, that others should decide who we should let into our own member states and who we should live with.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor can it provide an answer to the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. at the same time, for the masses of immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, every misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. the hungarian people's party delegation could not vote on the report on migration adopted today because it is unacceptable that we are told centrally who we should be putting on our backs, that others should decide who we should let into our own member states and with whom we should live.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor can it provide an answer to the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. at the same time, for the masses of immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, every misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. the hungarian people's party delegation could not vote on the report on migration adopted today because it is unacceptable that we are told centrally who we should be putting on our backs, that others should decide who we should let into our own member states and with whom we should live.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor can it provide an answer to the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. at the same time, for the masses of immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, any misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. the hungarian people's party delegation could not vote on the report on migration adopted today because it is unacceptable that we are told centrally who we should be putting on our backs, that others should decide who we should let into our own member states and who we should live with.
in writing. ‒ the eu's policies and legislation are constantly forgetting to promote basic solidarity and humanity in the face of the plight of indigenous european minorities. at the same time, the masses of people who claim to be refugees, of unknown origin, nationality, intentions, who often burn their documents, who hide their personal data, are given maximum support by the eu authorities, in chorus with the vast majority of ngos and the press. europe has as much of a humanitarian obligation to welcome refugees as the rich gulf states. the latter are also faced with labour shortages and are culturally close to them.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on citizenship, home affairs and justice not only argues for a comprehensive eu approach to migration, but also outlines a comprehensive approach. it stresses the need to establish a common and uniform european asylum system, in this context the revision of the dublin iii regulation, and urges the establishment of eu reception points (hotspots) in addition to common and uniform protection of the schengen borders. it reiterates its call for the introduction of a mechanism for the distribution of asylum seekers between member states. it focuses on the integration of refugees, family reunification problems, and the vulnerability of children, in particular unaccompanied and separated children. it covers the treatment of trafficking in human beings and smuggling of human beings, including the fight against them. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ in order to avoid any contradiction with my duty as vice-president of the european people's party in relation to the resolution as the fidesz people's party delegation voted differently from the political group i did not participate directly in the vote. i did not press the ballot button, but i did raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that had been agreed upon previously.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of a very thorough report which i believe will prove very important in the future, as it can make a significant contribution to finding a truly comprehensive pan-european solution to the dysfunctional dublin system, following the experience of the first refugee crisis in the mediterranean. i agree with the holistic approach to the issue, and particularly with the fact that the package of proposals sets out the requirement of solidarity towards the member states as a basic principle, a binding norm. i hope that this report will help to identify the current weaknesses of the union in its own migration policy. as i said in the debate, it is hardly possible to build a new eu migration order on solidarity with each other and with refugees, where some member state governments base their refugee policies on rejection and even hatred of immigrants and refugees. as a hungarian opposition politician, i am particularly concerned that the orbán government is continuing to campaign against foreigners and is organising a referendum against a non-existent decision to accept them. i am confident that the adoption of this important ep report can also help to eliminate such anomalies in the member states and thus pave the way for a new and effective eu migration policy.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis cannot be confused with the refugee crisis, nor can it provide an answer to the demographic problems of some member states. the masses that are coming to europe are only a fraction of the actual refugees, and the ones we can help the most are those in reception camps close to their home countries. if they can be provided with decent conditions, health care and education, we will make it easier for them to return to their home countries once the situation has stabilized. at the same time, for the masses of immigrants who come in the hope of a better life, any misunderstood gesture is interpreted as an invitation. solidarity can take many forms, and it is not the imposition of artificial mandatory quotas that will provide the solution. the hungarian people's party delegation could not vote on the report on migration adopted today because it is unacceptable that someone central decides who we are to be blamed for and that others decide who we should let into our own member states and with whom we should live.
mr. president, i have to go. although i did not vote for this report, i was pleased to see that the principle of subsidiarity and subsidiarity remain explicitly recognised as one of the guiding principles of the european union. but if that is the case, then i don't know and i don't understand why our dear colleagues in the house of representatives have been angry about this debate today, and why they are angry about hungary choosing a different path on the issue of migration, and also on some other issues that they see as good. once there is subsidiarity, once decisions have to be made there, as close as possible to the citizens, except in areas where we have lost our sovereignty. we have not given up our sovereignty in the area of migration and immigration, so you should stop trying to discipline and force hungary to its knees. this is our area of decision-making. you decide the fate of your own country. thank you very much.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the union, how the eu institutions have managed to apply these two principles in lawmaking and law enforcement, and how these two principles have been applied in practice. the report examines whether the eu institutions and bodies apply these two principles and, if so, how they work in practice. the report examines the development and status of these processes, comparing the practices of recent years. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the union, how the eu institutions have managed to apply these two principles in lawmaking and law enforcement, and how these two principles have been applied in practice. the report examines whether the eu institutions and bodies apply these two principles and, if so, how they work in practice. the report examines the development and status of these processes, comparing the practices of recent years.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the union, how the eu institutions have managed to apply these two principles in lawmaking and law enforcement, and how these two principles have been applied in practice. the report examines whether the eu institutions and bodies apply these two principles and, if so, how they work in practice. the report examines the development and status of these processes, comparing the practices of recent years. in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the union, how the eu institutions have managed to apply these two principles in lawmaking and law enforcement, and how these two principles have been applied in practice. the report examines whether the eu institutions and bodies apply these two principles and, if so, how they work in practice. the report examines the development and status of these processes, comparing the practices of recent years.
in writing. ‒ i support the parliament's position on the 2012-13 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality. i agree that the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality is the starting point for policy making. at the beginning of the legislative process, it should be assessed whether policy objectives can be better formulated at union level rather than through national or regional initiatives. i also consider it important to ensure appropriate consultation, dialogue and involvement of citizens, businesses and civil society in the eu decision-making process on trade policy.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the union and how the eu institutions have succeeded in applying these two principles in the legislative and administrative processes. the report examines whether the eu institutions and bodies apply these two principles and, if so, how they work in practice.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the union, how the eu institutions have managed to apply these two principles in lawmaking and law enforcement, and how these two principles have been applied in practice. the report examines whether the eu institutions and bodies apply these two principles and, if so, how they work in practice. the report examines the development and status of these processes, comparing the practices of recent years. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the union, how the eu institutions have managed to apply these two principles in lawmaking and law enforcement, and how these two principles have been applied in practice. the report examines whether the eu institutions and bodies apply these two principles and, if so, how they work in practice. the report examines the development and status of these processes, comparing the practices of recent years with the
in writing. ‒ subsidiarity and proportionality are the fundamental principles of the european union. the commission has submitted its annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality for 2012 and 2013 under the subsidiarity control mechanism introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the significance of these two years is that a yellow-box procedure was carried out in both cases: in 2012 for the commission proposal for a council regulation on the exercise of the right of collective action in the context of the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services, and in 2013 for the commission proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. the report contains a number of elements that would weaken the eu's decision-making, the role of the european parliament and even the eu's legislative process. because of that, i was unable to support the report.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the union, how the eu institutions have managed to apply these two principles in lawmaking and law enforcement, and how these two principles have been applied in practice. the report examines whether the eu institutions and bodies apply these two principles and, if so, how they work in practice. the report examines the development and status of these processes, comparing the practices of recent years.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the report on subsidiarity and proportionality because i do not feel that it is sufficiently developed at this stage as a document to move closer european cooperation in the right direction. however, i would stress that, as the report points out, subsidiarity and proportionality are the fundamental principles of the eu, on the basis of which it is necessary to assess at the beginning of any legislative process whether policy objectives can be better achieved at eu level, through national or regional initiatives. it is appropriate that the rapporteur has drawn attention to the fact that in some cases eu budgetary resources have been allocated to projects that do not deliver effective results, and it is therefore essential that the commission considers the introduction of on-the-spot evaluations for projects with significant financial impact at local level.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the union, how the eu institutions have managed to apply these two principles in lawmaking and law enforcement, and how these two principles have been applied in practice. the report examines whether the eu institutions and bodies apply these two principles and, if so, how they work in practice. the report examines the development and status of these processes, comparing the practices of recent years.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, national parliaments have become more closely involved and involved in the european legislative process, giving greater weight to the principles on which the eu is founded, including the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in interinstitutional relations. further work is needed in this area and the report under discussion proposes, as a first step, that the commission holds an annual consultation with national parliaments in order to strengthen the dialogue between the commission and national parliaments. i have followed the s&d group's position with interest.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the commission's intention to make the legislative process more transparent and to involve citizens and stakeholders more closely in the whole process. the commission should prioritise the development of certain measures over the number of legislative acts and should focus on the quality of legislation and better implementation of existing legislation. in this respect, it stresses that costs cannot be a decisive factor. the commission's commitment to further improve the impact assessment of smes is particularly important, given that more than 20 million smes represent 99% of all businesses in the union and that smes are thus the cornerstone of the economy, growth and employment. the report calls on the commission not to give up its objectives of reducing the administrative burden on smes. on the basis of all these considerations, i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to create a simple, clear and predictable regulatory system for business and eu citizens alike. it aims to end red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and develop legislation. the commission's refit scrutiny of the whole of european legislation focuses on, inter alia, the identification of these burdens and on measures that impede legislation.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to create a simple, clear and predictable regulatory system for business and eu citizens alike. it aims to end red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and develop legislation. the commission's refit scrutiny of the whole of european legislation focuses on, inter alia, the identification of these burdens and on measures that impede legislation. in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to create a simple, clear and predictable regulatory system for business and eu citizens alike. it aims to end red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and develop legislation. the commission's refit scrutiny of the whole of european legislation focuses on, inter alia, the identification of these burdens and on measures that impede legislation.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to create a simple, clear and predictable regulatory system for business and eu citizens alike. it aims to end red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and develop legislation. the commission's refit scrutiny of the whole of european legislation focuses on, inter alia, the identification of these burdens and on measures that impede legislation.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to create a simple, clear and predictable regulatory system for business and eu citizens alike. it aims to end bureaucratic burdens, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and develop legislation. the commission's refit scrutiny of the whole of european legislation focuses on, inter alia, the identification of these burdens and on measures that impede legislation.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to create a simple, clear and predictable regulatory system for business and eu citizens alike. it aims to end red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and develop legislation. the commission's refit scrutiny of the whole of european legislation focuses on, inter alia, the identification of these burdens and on measures that impede legislation. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to create a simple, clear and predictable regulatory system for business and eu citizens alike. it aims to end red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and develop legislation. the commission's refit scrutiny of the whole of european legislation focuses on, inter alia, the identification of these burdens and on measures that impede legislation.
in writing. ‒ a programme for a sound and effective regulation (refit): situation and prospects, a communication from the commission published in 2014. the refit programme is a central element of the commission's new regulatory improvement strategy, aiming to consolidate the regulatory improvement process, simplify eu legislation, reduce administrative and regulatory burdens and initiate good governance based on evidence-based policy-making, where impact assessments and ex-post controls play a key role without replacing policy-making. the report of the committee on legal affairs welcomes the better regulation package of 19 may 2015, the commission's announcement that it intends to simplify the management of aid under the common agricultural policy, the european structural and investment funds and horizon 2020, and the fact that commission president juncker has entrusted the first vice-president of the commission with the task of improving regulation, which highlights the political importance of the issue. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to create a simple, clear and predictable regulatory system for business and eu citizens alike. it aims to end red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and develop legislation. the commission's refit scrutiny of the whole of european legislation focuses on, inter alia, the identification of these burdens and on measures that impede legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a programme for targeted and effective regulation, which highlighted the extremely high levels of bureaucracy across the union and the need to simplify legislation. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should give priority to the development of certain measures rather than the number of legislative acts. more attention should be paid to the quality of legislation and to better implementation of existing legislation. the report also very rightly emphasised that the refit programme should not under any circumstances be used to undermine sustainability or social, labour, environmental and consumer standards. i also share the view that the commission should continue to work on reducing the administrative burden on smes, which can provide a basis for the creation of quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to create a simple, clear and predictable regulatory system for business and eu citizens alike. it aims to end red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and develop legislation. the commission's refit scrutiny of the whole of european legislation focuses on, inter alia, the identification of these burdens and on measures that impede legislation.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to consolidate the regulatory improvement process, simplify eu legislation, reduce administrative and regulatory burdens and initiate good governance based on evidence-based policy-making, where impact assessments and ex-post controls play a key role without replacing policy-making. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
mr president towards the development of single market regulation, says the report. i have a few ideas, although i looked for them in the report, so i could not vote on what should be improved on this particular single market regulation. everything is regulated, right down to the legendary cucumber curve, but there is no regulation on who produces goods and who provides services in the context of free movement of goods, what minimum standard of living they should achieve and how much uniformity would be needed, because, for example, if we look at the living standards and wages of hungary and austria, we can talk about a lot of things, but not about uniformity. let them deal with this now, so that we cannot have wages of 200 and 300 euros within the european union and employ people in inhuman conditions, as in the third world. thank you very much.
in writing. ‒ the report takes the view that the single market, more than 20 years after its formal establishment, is still fragile, in particular because member states have not fully transposed or correctly implemented eu legislation, and that improving the single market regulation should therefore be treated as a priority and a shared responsibility of the eu institutions. the material refers to it in several places, but it is clear from the precedent cited that the essence of the matter is that while the single market has already been achieved for products, it has not yet been achieved for services. some of the highlighted paragraphs in the report are generally logical in themselves and therefore can be supported. i rejected the whole thing because the vague text of the present report is essentially aimed at a stronger expansion of the services market, a stronger imposition of eu law on the member states.
in writing. ‒ the delivery of the single market and the opportunities offered by the digital single market require a strong commitment from the actors involved. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean removing all rules, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of the report, considering that improving the single market is a common responsibility of all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. i agree that better legislation is not guaranteed by a single measure during the procedure, but by effective and efficient work throughout the entire policy cycle. i therefore attach great importance to the transposition and implementation of the single market rules. a single market that is not too burdensome for production, innovation and trade is the structure that will stimulate growth in europe. in this context, shared responsibility will lead to the realisation of common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market will be created, contributing to the development of europe.
in writing. ‒ the delivery of the single market and the opportunities offered by the digital single market require a strong commitment from the actors involved. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean removing all rules, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of mrs van bossuyt's report, because improving the single market is a shared responsibility of all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. i believe that better legislation is not guaranteed by a single measure during the procedure, but by effective and efficient work throughout the entire policy cycle. i therefore attach great importance to the transposition and implementation of the single market rules. a single market that is not too burdensome for production, innovation and trade is the structure that will stimulate growth in europe. in this context, shared responsibility will lead to the realisation of common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market will be created, contributing to the development of europe.
in writing. ‒ the delivery of the single market and the opportunities offered by the digital single market require a strong commitment from the actors involved. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean removing all rules, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of mrs van bossuyt's report, because i believe that improving the single market is a responsibility shared by all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. i believe that better legislation is not guaranteed by a single measure during the procedure, but by effective and efficient work throughout the entire policy cycle. i therefore attach great importance to the transposition and implementation of the single market rules. a single market that is not too burdensome for production, innovation and trade is the structure that will stimulate growth in europe. in this context, shared responsibility will lead to the realisation of common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market will be created, contributing to the development of europe.
in writing. ‒ the delivery of the single market and the opportunities offered by the digital single market require a strong commitment from the actors involved. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean removing all rules, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of mrs van bossuyt's report, because i believe that improving the single market is a responsibility shared by all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. i believe that better legislation is not guaranteed by a single measure during the procedure, but by effective and efficient work throughout the entire policy cycle. i therefore attach great importance to the transposition and implementation of the single market rules. a single market that is not too burdensome for production, innovation and trade is the structure that will stimulate growth in europe. in this context, shared responsibility will lead to the realisation of common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market will be created, contributing to the development of europe.
in writing. ‒ the delivery of the single market and the opportunities offered by the digital single market require a strong commitment from the actors involved. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean removing all rules, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of mrs van bossuyt's report, because i believe that improving the single market is a responsibility shared by all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. i believe that better legislation is not guaranteed by a single measure during the procedure, but by effective and efficient work throughout the entire policy cycle. i therefore attach great importance to the transposition and implementation of the single market rules. a single market that is not too burdensome for production, innovation and trade is the structure that will stimulate growth in europe. in this context, shared responsibility will lead to the realisation of common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market will be created, contributing to the development of europe.
in writing. ‒ the delivery of the single market and the opportunities offered by the digital single market require a strong commitment from the actors involved. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean removing all rules, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of mrs van bossuyt's report, because i believe that improving the single market is a responsibility shared by all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. i believe that better legislation is not guaranteed by a single measure during the procedure, but by effective and efficient work throughout the entire policy cycle. i therefore attach great importance to the transposition and implementation of the single market rules. a single market that is not too burdensome for production, innovation and trade is the structure that will stimulate growth in europe. in this context, shared responsibility will lead to the realisation of common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market will be created, contributing to the development of europe.
in writing. ‒ the delivery of the single market and the opportunities offered by the digital single market require a strong commitment from the actors involved. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean removing all rules, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of mrs van bossuyt's report, because improving the single market is a shared responsibility of all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. better legislation is not guaranteed by a single measure during the procedure, but by effective and efficient work throughout the entire policy cycle. i therefore attach great importance to the transposition and implementation of the single market rules. a single market that is not too burdensome for production, innovation and trade is the structure that will stimulate growth in europe. in this context, shared responsibility will lead to the realisation of common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market will be created, contributing to the development of europe.
in writing. ‒ the delivery of the single market and the opportunities offered by the digital single market require a strong commitment from the actors involved. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean removing all rules, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of mrs van bossuyt's report, because improving the single market is a shared responsibility of all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. i believe that better legislation is not guaranteed by a single measure during the procedure, but by effective and efficient work throughout the entire policy cycle. i therefore attach great importance to the transposition and implementation of the single market rules. a single market that is not too burdensome for production, innovation and trade is the structure that will stimulate growth in europe. in this context, shared responsibility will lead to the realisation of common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market will be created, contributing to the development of europe.
in writing. ‒ the report is logical, coherent and supportive in some parts, but it does not serve the interests of my country as a whole, because it seeks to put too much pressure on the member states to unify the services market. i agree that legislation should benefit citizens, contribute to improving competitiveness, job creation, sustainable growth and the development of smes, but the report does not guarantee equality of opportunity for the countries that joined later.
in writing. ‒ the single market is a key tool for boosting economic growth and job creation in the union. a single market that does not place too much burden on or jeopardise production, innovation and trade is a tool to bring back jobs and growth to europe that would have been possible elsewhere. however, the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection concludes that the single market for goods has been achieved but not for services; more than 20 years after its formal establishment, the single market is still in tatters, in particular because member states have not fully transposed or correctly implemented eu legislation. it stresses that improving the single market does not mean removing all rules, nor does it mean reducing the level of regulation, but rather eliminating unnecessary regulation and negative effects. it points out that single market legislation should take into account the new opportunities offered by the digital revolution and be consistent with the e-government dimension. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the delivery of the single market and the opportunities offered by the digital single market require a strong commitment from the actors involved. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean removing all rules, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of mrs van bossuyt's report, because improving the single market is a shared responsibility of all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. i believe that better legislation is not guaranteed by a single measure during the procedure, but by effective and efficient work throughout the entire policy cycle. i therefore attach great importance to the transposition and implementation of the single market rules. a single market that is not too burdensome for production, innovation and trade is a structure that will stimulate growth in europe. in this context, shared responsibility will lead to the realisation of common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market will be created, contributing to the development of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on improving the single market regulation because it does not represent the direction needed to strengthen the single market. however, it is appropriate to treat the improvement of the single market regulation as a priority and a shared responsibility of the eu institutions, as recommended in the report. as the report points out, we need to aim for regulation that benefits citizens, thus contributing to improving competitiveness, job creation and the development of smes, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection. the commission should continue its efforts and regularly update its regulatory guidance to meet the challenges of the digital age. despite my negative vote, i share the rapporteur's concern that europeans have very little information about the services and organisations that help them exercise their consumer rights. the commission and the member states should play a more active role in promoting such tools, while also examining the effectiveness of the services.
in writing. ‒ improving the single market is a shared responsibility of all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept under which the european union is seeking to improve the regulation of the single market. it means a shared responsibility to respect the principle of subsidiarity when deciding whether action is needed; to be able to decide on the most appropriate action if regulation is needed; and finally to ensure that the measures and obligations developed are simple and are applied effectively and efficiently to achieve the policy objectives pursued. i voted in favour of the report.
i stopped in a small german village on my way home the other day, and i stopped at an inn. little, a couple of rooms, restaurant downstairs where i had dinner. i talked to the owner's wife. a real family business, they've owned this inn and this restaurant for generations. with tears in his eyes, he informed them that next month a large group of immigrants would be moving into the house next door, and their business would be ruined. i suggest that in this subject of learning about the european union, this case should be included in the textbook as a case study, and that the subject should include a discussion with students about how to prevent this from happening en masse in all 28 countries of the european union, by honest small businesses, by honest people. thank you very much.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing new challenges today, so it is more important than ever that schools and the public debate about the european union, its values, and the benefits and system of european integration. the current lack of knowledge among eu citizens about the european union and the functioning of its institutions is shown by the eurobarometer spring 2014 survey: 44% of eu citizens do not understand how the union works. it is no wonder that citizens feel alienated from the union and increasingly turn their backs on its policies and projects. we can improve this by providing citizens with better information at school age. one way to do this is to increase the eu dimension of school education, which can prepare citizens to live in an increasingly complex and globalised world. i am convinced that in today's europe there is an even greater need to know the founding pillars and values of the european union, and that knowledge and understanding of the history and values of the union and its member states are key to further peaceful coexistence, mutual understanding, tolerance and solidarity. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ eu citizens in general currently have little knowledge of the european union and its institutions, and feel distant from brussels and the eu institutions. this can be changed by improving the information available to citizens, and one of the key ways of doing this is to increase the eu dimension of school education. the european dimension of the ncps is often too general, making it difficult for learners to get a comprehensive picture of the union. given its impact on citizens' daily lives, the union should be given greater visibility in educational materials, at all levels and in all forms of education. examples should be sought to illustrate the role of the eu in the daily lives of learners. the opportunities offered by union programmes in the fields of education and culture should be exploited at european level to promote language skills, active citizenship, cultural sensitivity and intercultural understanding. wider access to mobility opportunities provided by these programmes is essential to ensure and increase the civic awareness and civic participation of the younger generation.
in writing. - i'm voting for the report. by bringing the european identity out of the crisis, it is important that schools have a dialogue about the european union, that citizens have a new faith in the benefits of the european integration process. many citizens have limited knowledge of the union. i therefore support the need to increase the visibility of the eu in textbooks and to make european knowledge education reflect the complex relationship between the union and the member states: the union has been shaped by its member states through their own history and culture and its development remains inseparable from the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been going through a serious economic and financial crisis in recent years, the social and political effects of which are calling into question the legitimacy of the institutions and the common values of the union, and with them the notion of a european identity. in this respect, it is more important than ever that citizens regain their faith in the benefits and necessity of the european integration process. by comparison, only 42.61% of eu citizens and only 27.8% of 18-24 year olds voted in the last european parliament elections, the lowest turnout since 1979. according to a 2014 eurobarometer survey, 44% of eu citizens feel that their knowledge of how the eu works is limited, and 52% feel that their opinion does not matter in the union. the report by the committee on culture and education points out that a lack of knowledge about the union can create a sense of democratic deficit and lead to a widespread euroscepticism in the member states. however, increasing the eu dimension of school education can help to overcome euroscepticism. the report states that under the conditions created by the maastricht treaty, which places the content of the curriculum and the organisation of the education system under the exclusive competence of the member states and explicitly excludes the coordination of national laws and regulations, how can the strengthening of the eu dimension of school education be achieved? i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report. the european union is not just a community of member states, but also a community of citizens. it is therefore important that future generations are also given adequate information about the union's core values, history and functioning, and thus become responsible citizens of the union. i also consider it particularly important that students learn about the history and culture of other member states and of minorities living in europe. i therefore supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on school learning about the european union, which rightly points out that the institution of eu citizenship must be filled with real knowledge. as the rapporteur points out, a greater european dimension in educational materials would have several advantages: it would develop competences related to eu citizenship and help develop critical thinking by making learners aware of the union's fundamental values, eu decision-making processes and their impact on their daily lives. a broader knowledge of the union would enable young people to discover other cultures and to become active and tolerant citizens. i agree that teachers and pupils need to be more motivated and have more opportunities to learn about the eu from their own personal experiences. most member states have gradually integrated the european dimension into curricula and teacher training, but there are still significant differences between countries. i therefore share the rapporteur's view that further action is needed in this area at national and local level, but also at european level. politics can only serve citizens if we all play an active role in it. this is why teaching citizenship skills and eu skills is important.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently facing unforeseen challenges. in the last few years, it has been through a severe economic and financial crisis. the social and political implications of this challenge the legitimacy of the institutions and the common values of the union, and thus the concept of european identity. in this respect, it is more important than ever that schools, associations and public forums should be able to engage in a dialogue about the european union, so that citizens can regain their faith in the benefits and necessity of the european integration process. eu citizens currently have little knowledge of the european union and the functioning of its institutions, as shown by the fact that in the spring 2014 eurobarometer survey, 44% of eu citizens disagreed with the statement 'i understand how the union works'. it is no wonder that citizens feel alienated from the european political project and are turning increasingly eurosceptic and discover democratic weaknesses in the eu decision-making process. i voted for it.
yes, i voted for it, because it's a great thing after all that a hungarian carpenter, carpenter or shoemaker can learn the tricks of the trade together with a german or an english colleague. the problem is that they probably won't have a chance to practice their profession, their profession, after they pass the trades exam. at least the hungarian will have much less of that, thanks to the same eu that thought it was a good idea and very generously organized this erasmus 2 program. because, by the way, the european union's liberal free trade system has brought in cheap and often, admittedly, poor quality products from all over the world, which have made these excellent professionals either unable to get to work or unable to work. thank you very much, and take that into account.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the erasmus+ programme and highlights the benefits of the education mobility programme for young people's learning and skills. unfortunately, the program's opportunities are limited to students in higher education, and only a small percentage of them are taking advantage of them. it would be appropriate to increase the role and relevance of existing student mobility programmes specifically designed for other school areas and funded under this programme, including comenius for secondary school students and leonardo davinci for adult learning. the report urges a move in the desired direction to increase the use and popularity of the erasmus+ programme, with the expected result of high-quality, language-speaking and good professionals being brought out through the programmes. unfortunately, lifelong learning is also rapidly showing its negative side, with non-marketable skills and overqualifications that are not valued by the labour market. it is important that the programme should insist on the possibility of mobility for vocational training and not go in the direction of training an eu citizen, which would allow the replacement of national and ethnic diversity within the eu, underpinning the creation of the federal state.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in intercultural environments. this is all part of providing quality education and promoting employability. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training play an important role in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving, high numbers of neets and unemployment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities to encourage mobility in vocational training have been exploited. greater mobility means more employment opportunities. the labour market anomalies mean we have to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work, the business community, including smes, are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by erasmus+ are fully responsive to the needs of young people in europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in an intercultural environment. this is all part of providing quality education and promoting employability. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training play an important role in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving, high numbers of neets and unemployment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities to encourage mobility in vocational training have been exploited. greater mobility means more employment opportunities. the labour market anomalies mean that we have to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work, entrepreneurship, including smes, are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by erasmus+ are fully responsive to the needs of young people in europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in an intercultural environment. this is all part of providing quality education and promoting employability. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training play an important role in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving, high numbers of neets and unemployment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities to encourage mobility in vocational training have been exploited. greater mobility means more employment opportunities. the labour market anomalies mean that we have to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work, entrepreneurship, including smes, are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by erasmus+ are fully responsive to the needs of young people in europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in an intercultural environment. this is all part of providing quality education and promoting employability. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training play an important role in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving, high numbers of neets and unemployment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities to encourage mobility in vocational training have been exploited. greater mobility means more employment opportunities. the labour market anomalies mean that we have to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work, entrepreneurship, including smes, are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by erasmus+ are fully responsive to the needs of young people in europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in an intercultural environment. this is all part of providing quality education and promoting employability. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training play an important role in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving, high numbers of neets and unemployment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities to encourage mobility in vocational training have been exploited. greater mobility means more employment opportunities. the labour market anomalies mean that we have to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work, entrepreneurship, including smes, are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by erasmus+ are fully responsive to the needs of young people in europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of the erasmus+ programme is seen as a significant step forward in the area of mobility between higher education institutions, but it has been less widespread in the area of vocational training. the report aims to address the differences between member states in terms of curricula, the organisation of education and the relationship between education and business, which make european mobility programmes more complex, costly and difficult to operate. the resolution approved by the committee on culture and education recognises the challenges facing education systems, such as reducing the proportion of early school leavers, which is also relevant in our country, developing foreign language and entrepreneurial skills, increasing the skills of teachers in vocational education and training and promoting personalised education. the guidelines set out in the draft will increase the mobility of young people by better coordinating the structural funds with certain education programmes. the certification and common recognition of skills and competences helps to overcome differences between the vet systems of the member states, with a number of existing tools such as europass and ecvet. the extension of the erasmus+ programme will enable hungarian young people to acquire new professional knowledge, to learn the business practices of other countries and, last but not least, training mobility will also contribute to their personal development and improve their adaptability. i am voting in favour of this report because it is an important step forward for our country to promote quality education and employment for our young people.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in an intercultural environment. this is all part of providing quality education and promoting employability. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training play an important role in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving and the high number of young people who are neither in education, training nor employment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities to encourage mobility in vocational training have been exploited. greater mobility means more employment opportunities. the labour market anomalies mean that we have to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work, entrepreneurship, including smes, are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by erasmus+ are fully responsive to the needs of young people in europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in an intercultural environment. this is all part of providing quality education and promoting employability. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training play an important role in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving, high numbers of neets and unemployment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities to encourage mobility in vocational training have been exploited. greater mobility means more employment opportunities. the labour market anomalies mean that we have to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work, entrepreneurship, including smes, are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by erasmus+ are fully responsive to the needs of young people in europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ education is one of the most important veterinary issues in my country and in the eu as a whole. there is overtraining and undertraining at the same time. universities are shedding those with superfluous qualifications, while there is a shortage of it specialists, doctors, engineers, for example. the situation is not much better in secondary education. the result of the educational chaos is a simultaneous shortage of skilled workers and high levels of youth unemployment. i supported the report despite my reservations because, despite its flaws, it offers some scope for progress.
in writing. ‒ the eu unemployment rate remained at 10.2% in 2014 and youth unemployment stood at 22.1%. meanwhile, there is a structural labour shortage in the labour market, as indicated by a high vacancy rate. the differences in this area are huge between european regions: in some, the real rate is close to zero, while in others unemployment has stabilised above 40% among younger people, many of whom have not been able to obtain a secondary education or a vocational qualification. genuine mobility opportunities are therefore an essential part of any overall strategy to boost the economy and reduce youth unemployment. the replacement of the previously separate programmes by erasmus+ has represented a significant step forward in the understanding of the concept of mobility in relation to the european higher education area. however, while the earlier leonardo programme successfully implemented the first phase of the introduction of exchanges with countries other than the country of residence and of linked learning-work periods, the single structure of erasmus+ and, since 2008, the consequences of the economic crisis have exposed the structural weaknesses of programmes for mobility linking learning and work. the report of the committee on culture and education takes account of the areas of the erasmus+ programme which, if given greater quantitative and qualitative characteristics, could provide an answer to this problem. i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ erasmus+ is one of the eu's most successful programmes, which has enabled thousands of students to learn more about other eu countries and gain experience in higher education in other member states. in this way, this programme has a significant positive impact on both the open-mindedness and academic performance of young europeans, which is why i supported the report. i also supported the amendment to make erasmus+ material available in the language of minority education.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in an intercultural environment. this is all part of providing quality education and promoting employability. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training play an important role in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving, high numbers of neets and unemployment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities to encourage mobility in vocational training have been exploited. greater mobility means more employment opportunities. the labour market anomalies mean we have to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work, entrepreneurship, including smes, are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by erasmus+ are fully responsive to the needs of young people in europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on erasmus+ and other instruments to support vocational mobility. education is a basic human right, a public good and, in many cases, a way out of unemployment. i therefore agree that lifelong learning and vocational education and training systems need to be made not only more efficient but also more accessible and inclusive. i also support the report's suggestion that the commission and the member states increase the visibility of their vocational training programmes, especially in areas most affected by youth unemployment. providing wider access to erasmus+ and similar mobility programmes can stimulate and promote entrepreneurship, creativity, facilitate the development of international networks, have a positive impact on employability and, ultimately, on europe's competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social integration of young people, competitiveness in the labour market and the development of skills for work in intercultural environments. it's all part of a quality education. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training play an important role in the lifelong learning process and in addressing challenges such as early school leaving and unemployment. the erasmus+ programme has proved successful, but the results so far show that not all the opportunities to encourage mobility in vocational training have been exploited. greater mobility means more employment opportunities. the labour market anomalies mean that we have to act as soon as possible. greater synergies between education systems and the world of work, entrepreneurship, including smes, are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by erasmus+ are fully responsive to the needs of young people in europe. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the replacement of the previously separate programmes by erasmus+ has been a significant step forward in the european higher education area in the understanding of the concept of mobility. however, it should be noted that mobility linked to vocational training has received less attention. the earlier leonardo programme successfully implemented the first phase of the introduction of exchanges with countries other than the country of residence and of linked learning-work periods. however, on the one hand, the erasmus+ with a single structure, and on the other, since 2008, the consequences of the economic crisis have made evident the structural weaknesses of the programmes for learning-to-work-mobility. i voted for the report.
mr president the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that i do not mind the european union representing itself in these financial institutions and regulatory bodies, even though the member states are represented in their own right. it's much more important than that, what values they have and who they represent. i don't have a problem with them being there, but with them representing the interests of the banks first and foremost, not the consumers. this has been proved to me irrefutably by the european union in its action or inaction in the case of the hungarian foreign currency creditors. even i was fooled, because even i had hoped that given the gross violations of eu consumer protection laws, these people and families were being held hostage to hundreds of thousands of destructive foreign currency credit structures. the european union, for its part, has withdrawn from this matter, has remained in the background, does not wish to intervene. a squiggly curve, an angle, yes, but not this question. thank you, sir.
in writing. ‒ the report suggests that the eu's representation in multilateral organisations and bodies should be streamlined and regulated in order to increase the transparency, integrity and accountability of the union's participation in these bodies and to strengthen its influence. the report considers that situations in which delegates representing a member state or a national authority in international organisations take a position contrary to european legislative or regulatory decisions adopted by majority vote are detrimental to the union. the proposal is to prevent this. i rejected the report because it essentially strengthens the supranational organisations over the nation states and basically represents the interests of international money capital and thus by no means the interests of the european population.
in writing. ‒ i share the view of several colleagues that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on the ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct, as a result of the free movement of capital. given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, framing finance without changing the scale of public action would be a pipe dream. the eu has already created a global internal market for financial services, which the capital markets union will soon boost. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the free movement of capital means that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on our ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct. given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, framing finance without changing the scale of public action would be a pipe dream. the eu has already created a global internal market for financial services, which the capital markets union will soon boost. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the free movement of capital means that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on our ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct. given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, framing finance without changing the scale of public action would be a pipe dream. the eu has already created a global internal market for financial services, which the capital markets union will soon boost. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the free movement of capital means that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on our ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct. given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, framing finance without changing the scale of public action would be a pipe dream. the eu has already created a global internal market for financial services, which the capital markets union will soon boost. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the free movement of capital means that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on our ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct. given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, framing finance without changing the scale of public action would be a pipe dream. the eu has already created a global internal market for financial services, which the capital markets union will soon boost. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the free movement of capital means that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on our ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct. given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, framing finance without changing the scale of public action would be a pipe dream. the eu has already created a global internal market for financial services, which the capital markets union will soon boost. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the free movement of capital means that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on our ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct. given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, framing finance without changing the scale of public action would be a pipe dream. the eu has already created a global internal market for financial services, which the capital markets union will soon boost. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the free movement of capital means that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on our ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct. given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, framing finance without changing the scale of public action would be a pipe dream. the eu has already created a global internal market for financial services, which the capital markets union will soon boost. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area.
in writing. it is good to see the eu represented in multilateral organisations and bodies more rationally and in a more regular way, in order to increase the transparency, integrity and accountability of the union's participation and influence. however, most of these organisations are members of the eu member states, so the proposal that the union should be a member outweighs the interests of the member states, which i do not consider acceptable. the report effectively nullifies the freedom of action of the nation-state, while serving the interests of international finance capital, and we have seen the harmful consequences of this on many occasions. international financial institutions are needed, but in a different form.
in writing. ‒ the report of the economic and monetary committee is ruthlessly honest about the consequences of the lack of unified representation of the eu and the euro area in the various international financial organisations. in this way, europe's effective influence in the international institutions that ensure the stability of the financial system is significantly undermined. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area, and this requires a unified representation of member states in international financial organisations. the implementation of this would be a major step towards a federal europe, which is why i strongly supported the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the free movement of capital means that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on our ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct. given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, framing finance without changing the scale of public action would be a pipe dream. the eu has already created a global internal market for financial services, which the capital markets union will soon boost. the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs requires a rethinking of multilateral global cooperation, reinforcing the weight of the eu and the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's role in international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. i believe it is right that the eu's representation in multilateral organisations should be rationalised and regulated in order to increase the transparency, integrity and accountability of the union's participation. to do so would indeed help to increase the union's influence. i agree with the rapporteur that it is detrimental to the union to have delegates representing a member state or a national authority in an international organisation take a position which is contrary to european legislative or regulatory decisions adopted democratically by majority vote. there is a real need to increase coherence between delegations and it would be useful if, as the report calls for, the european commission with the involvement of the ep, drawing on best practices at european and national level, could draw up a european code of conduct on transparency, integrity and accountability, which is intended to guide eu delegates in international organisations.
in writing. ‒ this report starts from three premises: the free movement of capital means that the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on our ability to establish and enforce transnational standards and rules of conduct. the necessary change of scale must not lead to a dilution of responsibility at the expense of democracy. in particular, the role of national parliaments and the european parliament cannot be limited to a nod to developments. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the group of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the tomašić report. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ i approve the report on inshore fisheries. i support any cause that has a positive impact on job creation, the main challenge facing europe today. this area is of particular importance within the fisheries sector as it creates jobs and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. it is also a traditional form of fishing which we must support if it is to survive and thrive.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to manage the marine and ocean life well, preserving its biodiversity. it is equally important to preserve the best of european culture, such as small-scale coastal fishing, which is an environmentally friendly way of life and is also well-suited to tourism. the report is fully supported, it summarises well the socially useful aspects of this activity
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is an exceptionally important form of fishing in most member states because it creates jobs and is socially and environmentally sustainable. that is why i voted in favour of the report. it should be noted that the definition of coastal fishing varies from one member state to another (e.g. coastal, traditional or artisanal fishing) but covers a well-defined range of activities. i agree that the areas concerned need specific measures and support to grow and develop. the 2013 cfp regulation already focused on the economic development of coastal areas. the regulation provides for preferential access for small-scale and traditional fisheries in a 12-nautical-mile zone, the most sensitive part of eu waters. in addition to more programmes to help develop the so-called blue economies, i believe that more room for innovation and diversification should be given to prevent the marginalisation of the fisheries sector and to ensure green development. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's maritime policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's maritime policy.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is an exceptionally important form of fishing in eu countries. it is particularly important because it provides jobs for many people and is socially and environmentally sustainable. the classification and definition of inshore fisheries varies from one member state to another. for most coastal and island areas, coastal fishing is a traditional fishery that is a way of life and a major source of livelihood. areas dependent on coastal fisheries need specific measures and support for their growth and development. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the group of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the engström report. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. so the amount of sea fish caught is decreasing steadily and significantly. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. ‒ i support the parliament's report on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. the eu is still the largest market for fishery products. sustainable fisheries are part of a strategy to increase the eu's influence at international level by taking into account fisheries management and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the common fisheries policy should be further strengthened at international level. the report notes that some countries still pursue aggressive policies to access dwindling resources. these fleets operate under varying degrees of less stringent environmental, safety and social standards, and benefit from high subsidies and often lower taxes. several of these high seas fishing countries do not fulfil their obligations as flag, port or market states, or even respect fundamental human rights, all of which give them a competitive advantage over eu vessels. i agree that one of the best ways to achieve the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence in the international arena to encourage competition towards higher standards. the new eu common fisheries policy is making significant progress, requires policy coherence for development and, if properly implemented, will also improve the quality of eu fisheries on the high seas.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that one of the best ways to achieve the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence in the international arena to improve fisheries management and transparency standards and to encourage competition towards higher rather than lower standards. i supported him with my vote.
mr president the minister for the european council began by saying that the rights of the people must be protected. i hope that this time it is about us, the rights of the citizens of the european nations. because in this parliament, when i hear about human rights, it's always been about the rights of migrants. on monday, i returned to parliament and saw four posters for speeches on the protection of migrants, and none on the cologne events. of course, we also need coordinated intelligence cooperation against terrorism. but first, we need to face the situation europe has become. there have been terrible terrorist attacks before, in madrid, in london. but what we have to see now is that there is a war on europe, and part of that is the horrific acts of terrorism, and part of it is flooding europe with migrants who can't and won't fit in. thank you very much.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much, mr. president, for the opportunity, and i'm waiting for the answer from the representative, my question is this: you have repeatedly said in your speech the expression "benevolence", that benevolence should guide the cooperation between the intelligence services and others. my question is whether the goodwill is enough, because there are a lot of concerns about data protection issues, and i think we owe it to ourselves to put some of the data protection measures we have in place. do you think the data protection issue is in order? thank you, sir.
mr. president, i will make my best effort. after the terrorist attacks, we all feel emotions first, compassion, grief, shock. but we must not lose our sanity, not least because it is the only way to prevent further terrorist attacks. we know that in europe, and unfortunately in this parliament, there are politicians who want to profit from tragedies. they deliberately confuse immigration with terrorism, they seek scapegoats, they manufacture images of enemies, because they don't have to face their own political impotence. they talk about the hopelessness of integration, while pretending not to know that the racism they have created is one of the main enemies of integration, the biggest obstacle. instead of promoting social integration, they're asking for unlimited powers to restrict freedom, uncontrolled surveillance of citizens. whereas today we know for a fact that it was not the freedom of the citizens, but rather the occasional dilettantism of the authorities that made the terrorist attacks possible. we can only prevent terrorist attacks if the intelligence services work together, if there is a common european intelligence service. the real challenge is not just defence, but the prevention of terrorist attacks, the prevention of radicalisation, the fight against racism and discrimination, the idea and the political practice of an inclusive europe. thank you very much. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. yes, terrorism must be confronted, as my colleague says. but i don't think political correctness is the only thing that stops us from confronting terrorism. i think that confronting terrorism is a matter of responsibility and solidarity, a matter of cooperation, and not a problem of political correctness. thank you very much.
madam president, please. it's shocking to hear about every terrorist attack, because any one of us could have been at any one of those places. the feeling that it could happen to you anytime, anywhere is terrifying. and it's our job to make sure that we don't let fear take over our lives. so it becomes a daily reality, a hard reality that we have experienced firsthand, that there is no freedom without security. we must re-create a sense of security for european citizens, which means very firm, tough measures, coordinated european police, intelligence and, last but not least, political measures. all charity must end now and be done. we need to protect people who have been identified as potential terrorists somewhere before, and then take advantage of the migration wave, and abuse the schengen system to hide in the heart of europe. that's why we need to transfer information, share it. this is why, for example, the establishment of the pnr system is necessary. we hope that the left will finally understand that it is the rightful expectation of european citizens to restore a sense of security. (the president withdrew the member's speaking time.)
in writing. the need for more effective and more integrated national security cooperation in europe has been conclusively demonstrated after the tragic terrorist attacks. there is no room for national pride, no separate paths, we are dependent on each other. however, i would like to draw attention to an important claim about nation-state highways, which is a recurrent theme in the political communication of populists and which is therefore causing serious long-term damage. hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has already equated migration with terrorism after the paris attacks, and fidesz has not only hinted at this but also confirmed this claim. on the other hand, the reality - we know it well - is that the fanatics who commit these attacks are all young people born and socialized in europe, many of whom have been radicalized in camps in syria or iraq. and some of them have indeed infiltrated back into our borders with the wave of refugees, but that does not allow us to label every man and woman who is fleeing from murderers like them as a terrorist. the threat to europe is a matter of national security, intelligence, in short, law enforcement and social integration. to deliberately confuse the two and thus foment hatred is to play the terrorist tune. yes, we're dealing with immigration, with second- and third-generation radicalised young people already here. but screening out terrorists who infiltrate the refugees is a police matter, not a political propaganda matter.
madam president, please. the european parliament is hereby established. i fear that the problem we are really in, or suffering from, is much bigger than what this debate is about. i say this from personal experience, as a newspaper reader, and i don't know of any major european company that doesn't have some offshore subsidiary, maybe more, or dozens, or even hundreds in some places. banks, oil companies, huge industrial corporations have this capacity, which means that an unimaginably large proportion of european income is going abroad with virtually no taxation, and this is the reason that in the last few years, virtually 1% of the world has got its hands on more than 50% of the world's wealth. and i think if we're going to do something about it, we need to pour some pure water into the glass. thank you very much.
member of the commission. madam president, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this excellent debate which shows the shared desire on all sides for a strong, active, i would even say virulent, fight against tax evasion and money laundering. the panama papers have underlined the need for a more comprehensive, better coordinated, even stronger approach to combat tax evasion, to combat money laundering in the european union and beyond the european union. we are facing a problem of such magnitude that we need a political response that is transnational, and this commission, i mean, is structured around that and is united for that. we are several commissioners here and we are really firing in the same direction with a lot of force. in the immediate future, the commission has several even more ambitious initiatives in the pipeline, as we say in english. for example, we will be presenting our amendments to the anti-money laundering directive by june, and this will further strengthen our preventive approach against this phenomenon, the fight against anonymous transactions and the coherence of our response to tackle this risk in third countries, but my colleague věra jourová is here to give you all the necessary details. we will also be looking at the old accis project (ccctb) by the end of the year, with the aim of making it work both for economic efficiency and for the fight against tax evasion, at least in the internal market. we are going to present a table which will make it possible to trace the various regimes in third countries, and it will also be a first step towards building the common blacklist which i mentioned by the summer. then, we will continue to work closely with our international partners - i mean the g20, i mean the oecd, i mean the fatf - to ensure that the commitments that are made are commitments that are gradually becoming standards of good global governance. and i know how much all these concerns - i say this - are shared by the dutch presidency, which is really very invested in this matter. jeroen dijsselbloem and his secretary of state fully share our concern to achieve, and i believe that by june we must make decisive progress and hold the member states to account. then we'll take it further. there are many proposals that have been made here that should feed our thinking. that is the response i wanted to give to the reflections of the members, with three replies i would like to give in particular to members of parliament whom i respect, but with whom i have a somewhat different relationship. first to mr lucke, who wondered why the commission had not acted sooner. he knows that the commission can only propose and, in this respect, i will say, for example, with regard to the proposal for the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings, that we have considerably accelerated the project and that we have taken advantage of the momentum to go faster. i think the panama papers are also a point of reference. rather than criticizing the commission, i think that the european parliament and we really need to work hand in hand because, i repeat, we are allies. we share the same beliefs. mr woolfe, with his usual elegance, wanted to present the european commission as a tax haven, accusing the 47 000 officials in this system of being fraudsters and the commissioners, in fact, of being their bosses. i am barely caricaturing, and this is all really outrageous because, contrary to a commonly held belief - and i take this opportunity to say it here - we pay taxes! of course, the commissioner's idea that there is no such thing as an international tax exempt official is totally wrong, and this applies, of course, to all commission officials. we have, on the contrary, an approach that allows for savings over the period 2014-2020. i would remind you that we are going to save our entire administration some eur 4.3 billion, and eur 1.5 billion a year in the long term, with a policy of wage moderation. the european union's officials pay progressive taxes of between 8% and 45%, which are actually higher for many than in the member states. i'm not talking about tax havens. they also pay, of course, social contributions. so let us stop this kind of demagogy or else i shall go to britain and ask for other incomes too. and, of course, a little decency! i would like to remind you that there are two meps, members of ukip, who have been sentenced to prison. i'm talking about prison for fraud committed with public money. so, frankly, first of all, this is all completely wrong, and secondly, it's more than just bad taste. but first, you have to sweep the front of the house. finally, my final reply is to mr lamberts, for whom i have the greatest respect and who is very well versed in these matters. besides, we end up having exchanges that are all the same because he apostrophizes me, and then he leaves, and he's not there when i answer. so, no doubt, there are some very interesting videos, but it is better to confront each other from time to time and wait for the commission to respond. i was really hurt by what he said. he said our last conversation was pleasant and that he made him laugh, and i laughed. this one is not pleasant and it does not make me laugh because basically it accused the commission of waiting and being in the hands of i do not know what lobby. there is nothing more false, nothing more false! a few moments ago, jonathan hill put forward a proposal for a directive on the cbcr which goes beyond what all the international bodies are proposing. the threshold of eur 750 million is that of the oecd. when you take the oecd, what does it say about the scope? it says exchange between tax administrations; we say advertising. and i think, for once, he was wrong. we shall, of course, know what any multinational company is doing in belgium, in ireland, elsewhere in europe and outside europe. we will ask for aggregate data and even, for some countries which are tax havens, we will ask for detailed data. we are the first in the world, the first in the world! the most ambitious in the world. so i understand why a member of parliament is involved in politics. i understand that he is more demanding, and i can understand that he wants us to go further, and the member states will have that responsibility, if necessary. but, finally, when we make collective progress, when we do it together, when it is going in the right direction, we must be able to say: 'yes, that is good!' instead of stigmatising or accusing the commission. i repeat, we are allies. we are allies, and this commission, all the commissioners who are here, under the authority of the president, who is constantly supporting these matters, we want to be the driving force, the leader in the world in the fight against tax evasion. what this commission is proposing is unprecedented in the ambition of the european institutions. i know that mr lamberts is very intelligent and very familiar with these matters, and i am forced to conclude that there is a degree of bad faith on this point. that is not the way to do politics, because we have to respect each other and shoot in the same direction. i want to do the same with him, with the green group, as with all the groups in this assembly, for whom i have the greatest respect. yes, the european parliament and the commission are pursuing the same objective. we know that the purpose is transparency and the fight against tax evasion. so let us move forward together rather than engage in evil polemics which i think are counterproductive in truth. this commission is an institution like any other, which is not perfect. no institution is, but i assure you that on these issues, frankly, it has nothing to be ashamed of what it does and today, especially, i am very proud of what we have decided and what jonathan hill has presented, because it is a breakthrough that no country in the world, no region in the world can claim. we can!
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for the opportunity to add a short comment in response to your questions about money laundering. you are right that we have to put in place a number of measures to ensure that authorities have stronger powers to fight money laundering and that suspect transactions are reported to them. as you know, we have already achieved considerable results with the fourth anti—money laundering directive, adopted in december 2014, which, among other things, provides for the setting-up of central registers of beneficial ownership. it now awaits speedy transposition and implementation by the member states, which is crucial because it has to be brought to life. the registers should be set up by the end of 2016. the commission is prepared to provide all necessary support for this transposition, and i am keeping actively in touch with my counterparts in the member states on this issue. you are also right that the commission is now working on the revision of this directive. as announced in the action plan on terrorist financing, the revising proposal should be submitted on 1 june; it is focused primarily on addressing risks posed by terrorist financing, and especially on anonymous payments and the like, given that, according to security experts, financial transactions are very often the first indications that terrorist attacks are being prepared. so we need to tackle this issue. finally, as also announced in the action plan, the commission will take forward a legislative proposal harmonising money laundering-related criminal offences and penalties.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, a lot has been said, so i think i can cut a long story very short. the panama papers revelations do show us that the european union’s work against tax fraud and against money laundering is essential. these are common goals and it is our joint responsibility to pursue them further at a global level by taking up the role of front-runner. to be clear, the council wants to know the facts as much as you, parliament, and – i am convinced – the commission. that is why we will examine the information in the panama papers and examine closely our policies with a view to making our fight against evasion and fraud as effective as possible. i am certain all the eu institutions will take up their responsibility, and i am certain we can and will work together in this. so yes, we will continue our fight and we are determined to work fast and in an efficient manner on all the elements i mentioned. i call on all the member states and the european parliament to support us by working with us on the measures currently on the table and on the measures that will follow, most probably, in the very near future.
in writing. a change in the whole of european politics! luxleaks, dieselgate and now the panama papers are perfect illustrations of the state of affairs in europe today with regard to transparency and public purity. i can say with regret that all of europe has been "taken for granted and made light of". the panama papers have revealed one of the tools that the global elite use to hide their income, by withdrawing themselves from the burden of the common good in their home countries. which also creates the opportunity for all kinds of illegal economic activities. meanwhile, poverty is growing across europe, and public budgets are running out of money for public services, education, health, the unemployed, the homeless, refugees. we must put an end to this injustice! it is the common responsibility of european legislators to put a stop to unfettered tax optimisation. the first step is to ensure transparency of the finances of the political elite at european and national level. the rules on conflicts of interest and declaration of assets of the various political functionaries and their family members should be regulated in a strict, transparent and verifiable manner. at the same time, the transparency rules for the business elite should be clarified. we complain that people don't trust politicians, as evidenced by the nearly half a million signatories who signed the initiative calling for accountability of offshore companies and the banks involved. until we do that, we're not going to win back the trust of the voters.
the following is the order of business for the debate on the commission statement: decision on the transparency of taxation by the public (2016/2552 ((rsp)).
i'm not going to let you go. i would like to ask you for factual and numerical information about the exact legal status of those who leave europe to fight for the islamic state and then return to europe? how many of these people do we know about? is it a crime for someone to do that, or do we have to wait until they kill someone, until they commit a terrorist act, and then they're held accountable? if this is not a crime in the modern era, then shouldn't it be a crime - sui generis - to fight for a terrorist organization abroad? if you came back to europe, you could go to jail, and if you're not a european citizen, you could be deported. is this a question under consideration, or are those who think, like me, that something is very, very wrong? i'll wait for your answer, thank you.
in writing. nearly two decades after the european union signed a partnership and cooperation agreement with armenia and azerbaijan, with the aim of strengthening democracy and the rule of law in these countries and putting economic life on a new footing. the european neighbourhood policy also aims to consolidate security in the region and to promote reconciliation between the two caucasian peoples. however, we are deeply concerned that the implementation of the initial objectives has been delayed by the prolonged conflict, and the renewed fighting in early april seems to make a peaceful settlement of azerbaijani-armenian relations impossible. we must do everything possible to prevent the ethnic conflict from turning into another bloody war in the caucasus. the eu supports the existing negotiating formats along the lines of the principles of the neighbourhood policy, but calls on both sides to respect the ceasefire and not to jeopardise the stability of the region. in the interests of a peaceful future for the region, both parties should respect the commitments made in the association agreement with the union. it's a shared responsibility. similarly, they are also rightly expected to fulfil the obligations imposed by the osce minsk group, thereby ending the renewed hostilities. in the current crisis, the eu's foreign service must do everything in its power to bring about a final settlement between the two sides.
rapporteur.– mr president, first of all let me thank all of you for being present at this late hour. i especially appreciate the vice-president/high representative being present here. her stamina and perseverance is actually both admirable and indeed exceptional in these long foreign policy debates. today we have already discussed a number of pressing problems, deadly crises, complex policy problems and precarious situations around the world. the region that we are going to talk about in the last item on today’s agenda, central asia, may not seem to require such urgent attention. it may not produce a pressing demand on our resources, but it is – and this is one of the most important conclusions of the report – a region of increasing strategic importance to the european union. as rapporteur on the implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy, the first fact that i have learned from my colleagues is that we all agree on the growing relevance of the region to the european union. so this debate comes last, but not least, on today’s foreign policy agenda. first of all, allow me to express my sincere gratitude to the shadow rapporteurs, whose dedication, flexibility and professionalism resulted in the rich – and indeed not very short – text. i am also grateful to the various representatives of the european external action service (eeas), who proved to be very helpful throughout the entire process. let me start with the observation that the central asia strategy, as formulated nine years ago, had the right level of ambition. the achievements of the implementation were rather less spectacular though. that limited success requires that all parties involved – the eu, the member states and the five countries of central asia – need to make a serious and concerted effort to reach the aims laid down in the various official documents and treaties which we have with the region. we agree on a number of points within parliament on the strategy review. for instance, we also see a need for a more differentiated, conditional and incentive—based approach, and it should be applied so that regional programmes are more tailored to the needs of the interested parties within the region, not necessarily comprising the entire set of five countries. central asia has weak interregional links. some would even doubt whether it is a region in its own right. it would make sense to develop projects aimed at those countries which are willing to participate and willing to foster these kinds of links. we emphasise that the disbursement of eu funds should be incentive- and performance-based and that benchmarks should be developed for each and every country. these need to be formulated to assess their progress. the key areas include, among others (and i am sure my colleagues would list more than these) democratisation, fighting and preventing corruption, free and fair elections, ending drug trafficking, respecting labour laws and so on. the countries of the region need to develop their human rights records. some indeed seem to be inhospitable terrain for even the basic political rights. because of the precariousness of the human rights situation in some countries of the region, we urge the eeas to base their assessments not on the laws enacted but on the facts established on the ground. for such a strategy to become viable we need a unified approach. this is not the first or the last time that we have said that. we need to speak with one voice, together with the member states. no bilateral negotiations should undermine our efforts.
rapporteur.– mr president, as usual i have learnt a lot during the debate, and even more so during the entire process of guiding the report through the negotiations. i have just a few brief points on some of the notions mentioned in the debate. as for having a forward—looking attitude in our programmes and in our strategy, indeed, yes – nobody would want to contradict that. as for the notion that we should acknowledge progress when it takes place, i am also in full agreement, and i would like to emphasise both clauses of the sentence: ‘acknowledgment of progress’ and ‘when it really takes place’. and finally, as for the clear and consistent policies sorely missed by my colleague mr carver from the eu strategy, may i remind him that the historical record of great britain in that complicated region during the time of the great game is not much more impressive than ours, and i hope we could be somewhat more transparent than that.
mr president the eu-turkey agreement is the final outcome of the legal arrival of migrants in the european union. the eu leaders say there are good migrants and bad migrants. a bad migrant is one who arrives in greece on a ferry without proper travel documents, and is sent back. but the one who is sent to europe by turkey with this contingent is a good migrant. i ask them: will they fit into european societies? aren't they going to build a parallel society? are there any terrorists? there are no guarantees. this agreement fulfils the vision of president juncker, who made it clear in a speech here in parliament that europe needs immigrants, and cited australia and canada as examples. mrs zimmer just said that we are the european union. no, in a democracy we are not the european union, we are the people of the european union. but the majority of them do not want to make europe a continent of immigrants. thank you very much.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we're having another emotional argument i don't know how many times. if a voter asked me how many times we've discussed this issue, i couldn't tell you. are we effective? i ask the question. part of it is... we're talking about a delicate compromise that was born at the right time. of course, there is always room for improvement, but in the circumstances it was the right decision to go through the western balkans route without checks. the decision to close the route to human traffickers was also a good one. and the right decision was made to restore order and control at the borders. the decision was made for the safety of 500 million european union citizens. yes, greece's burdens have continued to grow, so it is right that we help to solve the burdens and bear the burdens. look at this compromise: the agreement is not perfect, of course. the turks are not sure they want to and can keep the deal. so we have to check, we have to check all the time. president erdogan had an interesting statement about whether they can actually keep this agreement. but look to the future. and the future is about hotspots not working, it's about the registration system needing to be overhauled, it's about the education system not working, the health care system not working. this is the future of europe.
in writing. i am very grateful that the recent decisions of the european council, based on the commission's concrete proposals, and the agreement with the turkish government with all its political contradictions, which have received a lot of political support are bringing a real european solution to the refugee crisis at last within sight. however, it should be stressed that this is only an initial effort and that the comprehensive solution must include the strengthening of the schengen system, the complete transformation of the dublin system and the introduction of effective relocation and resettlement practices applicable to all member states. at the same time, i would like to draw the attention of the representatives of the commission and the council to the fact that millions of european citizens are not affected by the important decisions of 17 and 18 march, precisely because of the hypocritical policies of their own governments and leaders. mostly in hungary, where government propaganda and anti-foreigner incitement are being carried out specifically against the decisions of the european council, while the orbán regime is organizing a self-affirming referendum against european decisions that do not actually exist. such irresponsible policies may be seen as marginal and temporary, but in reality they could distort the perception of the population of these member states about refugees, the image of europe for decades, while also jeopardising the urgent renewal of european migration policy. i believe that not only the authority of the european council but the very meaning of the european decision-making system will be called into question if the responsible leaders of the european institutions and the other member states are unable to deal with this anomaly.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. sweden has submitted an application to mobilise the egf, under the reference number egf/2015/009 se/volvo trucks, for a financial contribution from the egf. the committee considered that the application met the requirements of the relevant regulation and therefore i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ on 16 february 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by five companies operating primarily in the upper norrland region of sweden. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the expenditure of the european school in brussels. the request concerns 500 workers made redundant. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers include the following measures: various job search activities and coaching, entrepreneurship and start-up support, education and training, help in finding a job with private sector providers, job search support. the request was lodged with the commission on 16 september 2015 and supplemented by additional information until 11 november 2015. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 16 february 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by five companies operating primarily in the upper norrland region of sweden. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the expenditure of the european school in brussels. the request concerns 500 workers made redundant. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers include the following measures: various job search activities and coaching, entrepreneurship and start-up support, education and training, help in finding a job with private sector providers, job search support. the request was lodged with the commission on 16 september 2015 and supplemented by additional information until 11 november 2015. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 16 february 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by five companies operating primarily in the upper norrland region of sweden. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the expenditure of the european school in brussels. the request concerns 500 workers made redundant. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers include the following measures: various job search activities and coaching, entrepreneurship and start-up support, education and training, help in finding a job with private sector providers, job search support. the request was lodged with the commission on 16 september 2015 and supplemented by additional information until 11 november 2015. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the fund shall be managed by the commission in accordance with the principles laid down in the staff regulations of officials of the european union and in the conditions of employment of other servants of the european union. the corresponding amounts shall be entered as a reserve in the general budget of the union. the main objective is to support the reintegration of workers affected or made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. parliament has repeatedly stressed the need to improve the added value, efficiency and employability of the egf as a union instrument to support workers made redundant. the parliament's resolution stresses the importance of general awareness of the egf and the visibility of the fund. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the fund shall not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 150 million in 2011 prices. on 16 september 2015, sweden submitted an application to mobilise the fund, for an amount of eur 1 793 710, in respect of redundancies at the umeå site of volvo group truck operation emea, involving 470 workers, and at four supply and downstream companies (il logistics ab, lemia, caverion and isringhausen), involving 177 workers. the commission has concluded that the application fulfils the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation and that sweden is therefore eligible for the aid requested. it also concluded that the application meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 and therefore proposed to the parliament and the council a decision authorising the mobilisation of eur 1 793 710 from the european globalisation adjustment fund. in its report, the committee on budgets proposes that parliament adopt the commission's proposal and, on the basis of the request submitted by sweden, make a contribution to the mobilisation of the egf of eur 1 793 710. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. this is the second application to be examined under the 2016 budget and the 22nd for the production of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers and is for the mobilisation of a total of eur 1 793 710 from the egf for the benefit of sweden. the request concerns 500 workers made redundant. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i believe that networking and the exchange of information on the egf play an important role in the effective use of the egf, and therefore support the funding of the expert group of the egf contacts and the networking seminars on the implementation of the egf. i expect that this exchange of information will contribute to a better and more detailed analysis of the success rate of measures financed by the egf and, in particular, the re-employment rate of beneficiaries in the member states. it is important not only to make decisions on the use of the fund that appear to be well-founded, but also to monitor the effectiveness of their implementation. these assessments could form the basis for the assessment of future requests to the ep.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. the proposal is to mobilise eur 380 000 from the fund for technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing the supervision, the information and knowledge platform and the advice to be provided to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. article 11 (1) of the egf regulation provides that, on the initiative of the commission, 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf (i.e. eur 828 060 in 2016) may be used for technical assistance each year. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. the proposal is to mobilise eur 380 000 from the fund for technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing the supervision, the information and knowledge platform and the advice to be provided to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. article 11 (1) of the egf regulation provides that, on the initiative of the commission, 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf (i.e. eur 828 060 in 2016) may be used for technical assistance each year. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. the proposal is to mobilise eur 380 000 from the fund for technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing the supervision, the information and knowledge platform and the advice to be provided to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. article 11 (1) of the egf regulation provides that, on the initiative of the commission, 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf (i.e. eur 828 060 in 2016) may be used for technical assistance each year. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the fund shall not exceed the maximum annual amount of eur 150 million as provided for in article 12 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2011 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020 (6) and in article 15 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 of the european parliament and of the council (7). the corresponding amounts shall be entered as a reserve in the general budget of the union. sweden has submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in particular in respect of redundancies in the nace revision 2 sector (manufacture and conversion of motor vehicles and trailers) in the nuts ii region of upper norrland (se33). of the 647 redundant workers eligible for egf contribution, 500 are expected to participate, as 470 of these workers lost their jobs as a result of the reduction of the workforce at the volvo group truck operation emea plant in umeå and another 177 at four suppliers and a downstream company. however, the support from the egf shall not replace measures which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures aimed at restructuring undertakings or sectors. i welcome the measures taken by sweden in respect of workers made redundant and i support mr negrescu's report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the fund shall not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 150 million in 2011 prices. on 22 february 2016, the commission presented to the parliament and the council a proposal for a decision to mobilise eur 380 000 from the fund for technical assistance. the amount requested is intended to finance the following activities: monitoring and data collection, information, creation of a knowledge base and application platform, administrative and technical support, organisation of a seminar, evaluation. the report of the committee on budgets states that, under regulation (eu) no 1309/2013, a maximum of 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be mobilised each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. takes note that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the union's financial contribution for the period 2014-2020; i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the proposal is to mobilise eur 380 000 from the fund for technical assistance to the commission. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the establishment of a new instrument for the provision of emergency assistance within the union for the financial year 2016 of the european union. the report concludes that the emergency situation created by the mass influx of refugees and migrants into europe is beyond the capacity of the member states most affected to respond, and that at the same time there is no adequate tool at eu level to address the situation within the union. in particular, there is a need to reinforce the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol, in view of the current security situation in the european union. the council has presented a draft amending budget aimed at creating the budgetary structure for the instrument concerned by means of a transfer within chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the transfer will provide the new facility with a commitment appropriation of eur 100 million and a payment appropriation of eur 80,2 million to meet immediate funding needs. the report is to be supported, but the source of the money is still up for debate. it seems appropriate to implement the new instrument not at the expense of the flexibility framework but to transfer it from less important sites. this argument is also to be supported because the flexibility instrument is not a permanent task but is intended to finance exceptional cases, while immigration will unfortunately not be an exceptional but a permanent situation.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to accept without amendment the european commission's proposal, which has two main elements: the creation of a new budgetary structure for the eu emergency fund, with a commitment of eur 100 million and a transfer of eur 80.2 million in payments under budget chapter 3, and the strengthening of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol. given that draft amending budget no 1/2016 is in line with the financial annex to the adopted regulation on humanitarian aid within the union and that the funds to be mobilised are set aside from chapter 3, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to accept without amendment the european commission's proposal, which has two main elements: the creation of a new budgetary structure for the eu emergency fund, with a commitment of eur 100 million and a transfer of eur 80.2 million in payments under budget chapter 3, and the strengthening of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol. given that draft amending budget no 1/2016 is in line with the financial annex to the adopted regulation on humanitarian aid within the union and that the funds to be mobilised are set aside from chapter 3, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to accept without amendment the european commission's proposal, which has two main elements: the creation of a new budgetary structure for the eu emergency fund, with a commitment of eur 100 million and a transfer of eur 80.2 million in payments under budget chapter 3, and the strengthening of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol. given that draft amending budget no 1/2016 is in line with the financial annex to the adopted regulation on humanitarian aid within the union and that the funds to be mobilised are set aside from chapter 3, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to accept without amendment the european commission's proposal, which has two main elements: the creation of a new budgetary structure for the eu emergency fund, with a commitment of eur 100 million and a transfer of eur 80.2 million in payments under budget chapter 3, and the strengthening of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol. given that draft amending budget no 1/2016 is in line with the financial annex to the adopted regulation on humanitarian aid within the union and that the funds to be mobilised are set aside from chapter 3, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in an emergency situation created by the mass influx of migrants into europe, an emergency fund should be set up within the union to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe and to reduce the burden on member states. the commission proposal allows for emergency support from the eu budget to be provided within the union to address the humanitarian consequences of the current refugee crisis. the establishment of the new instrument amends the draft amending budget for the eu for the financial year 2016. i voted in favour of the report by mr josé manuel fernandes, but it is not always the 'uncoordinated response' of the frontline countries with a heavy burden that leads to the deterioration of the situation of asylum seekers, as the report explains.
in writing. ‒ the report is correct that the mass influx of refugees and migrants into europe exceeds the capacity of the member states most affected to respond, and that there is no adequate eu-wide tool to deal with the situation. it is now clear that the eu has been wrong about the migration issue, as evidenced by the attacks carried out by people who returned to europe as migrants, with combat experience and terrorist training. there has to be some way to finance a way out of the impasse, to resolve the situation that has arisen, or at least to manage the situation.
in writing. ‒ on 2 march 2016, the commission presented a proposal for a council regulation to create the missing means to address humanitarian needs within the union. on 15 march 2016, the council adopted regulation (eu) 2016/369 and presented draft amending budget no 1/2016 providing for a commitment appropriation of eur 100 million and a payment appropriation of eur 80,2 million for immediate financing needs related to regulation 2016/369. the commission has also identified a number of specific areas where the union should be able to contribute to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. in its report, the committee on budgets recommends that parliament welcome the commission's proposal to allow emergency support from the union budget to address the humanitarian consequences of the current refugee crisis within the union, approve the draft amending budget no 1/2016 of the council and confirm that, in view of the urgency of the situation, it is ready to accept it in the form submitted by the commission. i voted in favour of the committee on budgets' proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which, on the basis of a proposal from the european commission and a council resolution, allows for the immediate establishment of a new ad-hoc mechanism to deal with the impact of the refugee crisis. in making my decision, i considered the serious humanitarian situation created by the influx of refugees into europe, as well as the recent eu-turkey agreement, which creates further urgent needs for supplies and funding. the new mechanism will allow for the reallocation of budgetary resources of eur 300 million this year and an additional eur 200 million in 2017-18, while i am reassured by the commitment in the resolution that the commission will not make this a burden on the eu's external humanitarian aid framework. i also regard as important the commission's commitment that the staff of eu organisations dealing with refugees and counter-terrorism will not be subject to any future reduction in costs or staffing requirements, and that the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre at europol will be increased. however, i agree with the rapporteurs i do not agree that this new emergency mechanism, as proposed by the commission, does not fit into a comprehensive strategy on asylum and migration, and that this also undermines the decision-making rights of the european parliament; i am confident that this shortcoming will be remedied once the most urgent crisis situations have been addressed.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to create an eu budget line to finance faster and more targeted emergency support within the union by expanding the financial envelope already available to deal with emergencies within the union. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointment of mr samo jereb as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the council has nominated mr jereb samo as a member of the court of auditors. the council is responsible for appointing the president, but it must consult parliament before taking a decision. the committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's competence and heard the candidate at its meeting of 15 march 2016. in its report, it proposes that parliament deliver a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors. i supported the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's skills, background and professional qualifications. i have followed the s&d position closely on the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the appointment of mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the council has nominated mr mihails kozlov as a member of the court of auditors. the council is responsible for appointing the president, but it must consult parliament before taking a decision. the committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's competence and heard the candidate at its meeting of 15 march 2016. in its report, it proposes that parliament deliver a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr mihails kozlov as a member of the court of auditors. i supported the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's skills, background and professional qualifications. i have followed the s&d position closely on the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr jan gregor's appointment as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the council has nominated mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors. the council is responsible for appointing the president, but it must consult parliament before taking a decision. the committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's competence and heard the candidate at its meeting of 15 march 2016. in its report, it proposes that parliament give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors. i supported the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's skills, background and professional qualifications. i have followed the s&d position closely on the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the appointment of mr ladislav balko as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the council has nominated mr ladislav balk as a member of the court of auditors. the council is responsible for appointing the president, but it must consult parliament before taking a decision. the committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's competence and heard the candidate at its meeting of 15 march 2016. in its report, it proposes that parliament deliver a negative opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors. i did not support the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's skills, background and professional qualifications. i have followed the s&d position closely on the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ i supported the nomination of mr janusz wojciechowski as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the council has nominated mr janusz wojciechowsky as a member of the court of auditors. the council is responsible for appointing the president, but it must consult parliament before taking a decision. the committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's competence and heard the candidate at its meeting of 15 march 2016. in its report, it proposes that parliament deliver a negative opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors. i did not support the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's committee on budgetary control assessed the proposed candidate's skills, background and professional qualifications. i have followed the s&d position closely on the nomination of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of which i am a member has lodged an objection to the commission's draft implementing regulation concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products containing the active substance glyphosate. in this regulation, the european commission intends to extend the authorisation of these substances for a maximum of 15 years. in march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer classified glyphosate as a substance likely to cause cancer in humans. in addition, glyphosate has endocrine disrupting properties. however, the european food safety authority has concluded that glyphosate is unlikely to be a carcinogen to humans. in this unclear but worrying situation, the committee, in its motion for a resolution, called on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new proposal, in accordance with the precautionary principle. the parliament's plenary session amended the proposal on a number of points and fixed the period of authorisation for a further seven years subject to the fulfilment of other conditions. that is an unacceptably long period of time in my judgment. nevertheless, i supported the amended proposal in the final vote because, if it had not been accepted, the original decision of the commission, which was unconditional, would have remained in force for 15 years.
in writing. ‒ a number of research findings of concern have emerged regarding the carcinogenic potential of the pesticide glyphosate and therefore increased vigilance should be exercised when renewing the union authorisation of the active substance. of all the herbicides, glyphosate is currently the most popular drug in the world, with global use increasing dramatically over the past 40 years. the problem is that this plant protection product can be used by almost anyone in many member states, from large-scale farming to forestry to hobby gardening, without the appropriate qualification and restrictions on use. in my view, the compromise proposed by the ppe group is capable of striking a proper balance between the concerns of european citizens and the legitimate interests of farmers. the adopted amendment proposes that the european commission should renew the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for only 7 years instead of 15 years, subject to strict restrictions on use, with a professional qualification. in parallel, it should ensure that the toxicity of glyphosate is independently reviewed for its carcinogenicity and endocrine-disrupting properties. it should be noted that the authorisation may be withdrawn at any time should new evidence on the safety of the product become available in the meantime. the inclusion of all these safeguards could lead to the sustainable use of glyphosate in europe, which is already a common practice in hungary.
in writing. ‒ a number of research findings of concern have emerged regarding the carcinogenic potential of the pesticide glyphosate and therefore increased vigilance should be exercised when renewing the union authorisation of the active substance. of all the herbicides, glyphosate is currently the most popular drug in the world, with global use increasing dramatically over the past 40 years. the problem is that this plant protection product can be used by almost anyone in many member states, from large-scale farming to forestry to hobby gardening, without the appropriate qualification and restrictions on use. in my view, the compromise proposed by the group of the european people's party is capable of striking a proper balance between the concerns of european citizens and the legitimate interests of farmers. the adopted amendment proposes that the european commission should renew the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for only 7 years instead of 15 years, subject to strict restrictions on use, with a professional qualification. in parallel, it should ensure that the toxicity of glyphosate is independently reviewed for its carcinogenicity and endocrine-disrupting properties. it should be noted that the authorisation may be withdrawn at any time should new evidence on the safety of the product become available in the meantime. the inclusion of all these safeguards could lead to the sustainable use of glyphosate in europe, which is already a common practice in hungary.
in writing. ‒ a number of research findings of concern have emerged regarding the carcinogenic potential of the pesticide glyphosate and therefore increased vigilance should be exercised when renewing the union authorisation of the active substance. of all the herbicides, glyphosate is currently the most popular drug in the world, with global use increasing dramatically over the past 40 years. the problem is that this plant protection product can be used by almost anyone in many member states, from large-scale farming to forestry to hobby gardening, without the appropriate qualification and restrictions on use. in my view, the compromise proposed by the ppe group is capable of striking a proper balance between the concerns of european citizens and the legitimate interests of farmers. the adopted amendment proposes that the european commission should renew the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for only 7 years instead of 15 years, subject to strict restrictions on use, with a professional qualification. in parallel, it should ensure that the toxicity of glyphosate is independently reviewed for its carcinogenicity and endocrine-disrupting properties. it should be noted that the authorisation may be withdrawn at any time should new evidence on the safety of the product become available in the meantime. the inclusion of all these safeguards could lead to the sustainable use of glyphosate in europe, which is already a common practice in hungary.
in writing. ‒ a number of research findings of concern have emerged regarding the carcinogenic potential of the pesticide glyphosate and therefore increased vigilance should be exercised when renewing the union authorisation of the active substance. of all the herbicides, glyphosate is currently the most popular drug in the world, with global use increasing dramatically over the past 40 years. the problem is that this plant protection product can be used by almost anyone in many member states, from large-scale farming to forestry to hobby gardening, without the appropriate qualification and restrictions on use. in my view, the compromise proposed by the ppe group is capable of striking a proper balance between the concerns of european citizens and the legitimate interests of farmers. the adopted amendment proposes that the european commission should renew the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for only 7 years instead of 15 years, subject to strict restrictions on use, with a professional qualification. in parallel, it should ensure that the toxicity of glyphosate is independently reviewed for its carcinogenicity and endocrine-disrupting properties. it should be noted that the authorisation may be withdrawn at any time should new evidence on the safety of the product become available in the meantime. the inclusion of all these safeguards could lead to the sustainable use of glyphosate in europe, which is already a common practice in hungary.
in writing. ‒ a number of research findings of concern have emerged regarding the carcinogenic potential of the pesticide glyphosate and therefore increased vigilance should be exercised when renewing the union authorisation of the active substance. of all the herbicides, glyphosate is currently the most popular drug in the world, with global use increasing dramatically over the past 40 years. the problem is that this plant protection product can be used by almost anyone in many member states, from large-scale farming to forestry to hobby gardening, without the appropriate qualification and restrictions on use. in my view, the compromise proposed by the ppe group is capable of striking a proper balance between the concerns of european citizens and the legitimate interests of farmers. the adopted amendment proposes that the european commission should renew the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for only 7 years instead of 15 years, subject to strict restrictions on use, with a professional qualification. in parallel, it should ensure that the toxicity of glyphosate is independently reviewed for its carcinogenicity and endocrine-disrupting properties. it should be noted that the authorisation may be withdrawn at any time should new evidence on the safety of the product become available in the meantime. the inclusion of all these safeguards could lead to the sustainable use of glyphosate in europe, which is already a common practice in hungary.
in writing. ‒ a number of research findings of concern have emerged regarding the carcinogenic potential of the pesticide glyphosate and therefore increased vigilance should be exercised when renewing the union authorisation of the active substance. of all the herbicides, glyphosate is currently the most popular drug in the world, with global use increasing dramatically over the past 40 years. the problem is that this plant protection product can be used by almost anyone in many member states, from large-scale farming to forestry to hobby gardening, without the appropriate qualification and restrictions on use. in my view, the compromise proposed by the ppe group is capable of striking a proper balance between the concerns of european citizens and the legitimate interests of farmers. the adopted amendment proposes that the european commission should renew the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for only 7 years instead of 15 years, subject to strict restrictions on use, with a professional qualification. in parallel, it should ensure that the toxicity of glyphosate is independently reviewed for its carcinogenicity and endocrine-disrupting properties. it should be noted that the authorisation may be withdrawn at any time should new evidence on the safety of the product become available in the meantime. the inclusion of all these safeguards could lead to the sustainable use of glyphosate in europe, which is already a common practice in hungary.
in writing. ‒ a number of research findings of concern have emerged regarding the carcinogenic potential of the pesticide glyphosate and therefore increased vigilance should be exercised when renewing the union authorisation of the active substance. of all the herbicides, glyphosate is currently the most popular drug in the world, with global use increasing dramatically over the past 40 years. the problem is that this plant protection product can be used by almost anyone in many member states, from large-scale farming to forestry to hobby gardening, without the appropriate qualification and restrictions on use. in my view, the compromise proposed by the ppe group is capable of striking a proper balance between the concerns of european citizens and the legitimate interests of farmers. the adopted amendment proposes that the european commission should renew the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for only 7 years instead of 15 years, subject to strict restrictions on use, with a professional qualification. in parallel, it should ensure that the toxicity of glyphosate is independently reviewed for its carcinogenicity and endocrine-disrupting properties. it should be noted that the authorisation may be withdrawn at any time should new evidence on the safety of the product become available in the meantime. the inclusion of all these safeguards could lead to the sustainable use of glyphosate in europe, which is already a common practice in hungary.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide, and global use has increased 260-fold in the last 40 years. the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) classified glyphosate as a substance likely to cause cancer in humans in march 2015, while the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded in november 2015 that glyphosate is not likely to be carcinogenic to humans. the commission, in its draft implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011 ('the draft implementing regulation'), proposes to approve glyphosate until 30 june 2031. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety recommends that parliament declare that the draft implementing regulation does not ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009. it is therefore appropriate to withdraw the draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft not renewing the approval of glyphosate. it also calls on the commission and efsa to publish without delay the scientific evidence on which the positive classification and proposed re-approval of glyphosate is based. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ a number of research findings of concern have emerged regarding the carcinogenic potential of the pesticide glyphosate and therefore increased vigilance should be exercised when renewing the union authorisation of the active substance. of all the herbicides, glyphosate is currently the most popular drug in the world, with global use increasing dramatically over the past 40 years. the fact that this plant protection product can be used by almost anyone in many member states, from large-scale farming to forestry to hobby gardening, without appropriate qualification and restrictions on use, is a problem. in my view, the compromise proposed by the ppe group is capable of striking a proper balance between the concerns of european citizens and the legitimate interests of farmers. the adopted amendment proposes that the european commission should renew the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for only 7 years instead of 15 years, subject to strict restrictions on use, with a professional qualification. in parallel, it should ensure that the toxicity of glyphosate is independently reviewed for its carcinogenicity and endocrine-disrupting properties. it should be noted that the authorisation may be withdrawn at any time should new evidence on the safety of the product become available in the meantime. the inclusion of all these safeguards could lead to the sustainable use of glyphosate in europe, which is already a common practice in hungary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on a multi-agent european commission proposal. one of these is glyphosate, the use of which has been the subject of considerable controversy. the motion for a resolution calls on the commission to review the draft regulation in question and to submit a new one instead. it is stated that due to conflicting findings from iarc and efsa and further investigation by echa at present there is no evidence of the effects of glyphosate in humans and animals. i support not renewing the glyphosate license for another 15 years starting this july. i think it's important for the sake of animal and public health that we clear up any conflicting opinions first. i would add that this difference in theoretical approach has already been raised on several occasions during the ttip negotiations: in the usa, everything can be marketed until it is scientifically proven that the product is harmful; the eu, on the other hand, takes action even if suspicion arises. in my opinion, there is no industry interest that can override our commitment to health. the residues have already increased significantly, while resistance to glyphosate has also increased significantly in weed plants. therefore, alternative solutions must be found and innovation encouraged. the european union spent more than €100 million on research into alternative methods between 2007 and 2013, and this support continues in this financial cycle.
in writing. ‒ the international agency for research on cancer has classified glyphosate as a substance likely to cause cancer in humans. of all herbicides, systemic glyphosate herbicide has the largest global production volume; its global use has increased dramatically by 260 times over the last 40 years. i voted for the document.
dear citizens of europe! you're a bunch of scum. take them to brussels and strasbourg. the most aggressive way possible was to begin the elimination of nations and national self-determination. this report is perhaps the most brutal, outspoken example of this to date. and here's the gist of what i'm talking about between points 22 and 23, which is the strengthening of multilateral global governance as a goal. and then let me read a few more little verses while i have my big one-minute time. the goal: to promote free trade and investment around the world, better market access, not for small businesses, as everyone knows, but to protect the stability of the global financial system. and then some more colorful ones: the european union should be responsible for negotiating and signing all energy supply contracts. in addition, there should be multinational military units, the complete elimination of independent armies, of independent defense. be very careful, be very careful.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces a number of complex challenges and threats that require decisive joint action to address in a way that does not compromise europe's fundamental values. the union should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, take greater responsibility for its own security and territorial defence, and take into account the intrinsic link between internal and external security. it needs to be constructive, flexible and a stronger player in a multipolar world. in order to build peace and stability, we must uphold our enlargement commitments and continue to cooperate with countries with close links to the union in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy. these priorities are among others set out in this report, which i supported.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces a number of complex challenges and threats that require decisive, joint action to address them in a way that does not compromise europe's fundamental values. the union should therefore ensure both internal and external resilience, take greater responsibility for its own security and territorial defence, and take into account the intrinsic link between internal and external security. it needs to be constructive, flexible and a stronger player in a multipolar world. in order to build peace and stability, we must uphold our enlargement commitments and continue to cooperate with countries with close links to the union in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy. amongst others, these priorities are set out in the report entitled 'the role of the union in a changing global environment'. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces a number of complex challenges and threats that require decisive joint action to address them in a way that does not compromise europe's fundamental values. the union should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, take greater responsibility for its own security and territorial defence, and take into account the intrinsic link between internal and external security. it needs to be constructive, flexible and a stronger player in a multipolar world. in order to build peace and stability, we must uphold our enlargement commitments and continue to cooperate with countries with close links to the union in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy. amongst others, these priorities are set out in the report entitled 'the role of the union in a changing global environment'. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces a number of complex challenges and threats that require decisive joint action to address them in a way that does not compromise europe's fundamental values. the union should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, take greater responsibility for its own security and territorial defence, and take into account the intrinsic link between internal and external security. it needs to be constructive, flexible and a stronger player in a multipolar world. in order to build peace and stability, we must uphold our enlargement commitments and, in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy, continue to cooperate with countries with close links to the union. amongst others, these priorities are set out in the report entitled 'the role of the union in a changing global environment'. i voted for the document.
in writing. the european union faces a number of complex challenges and threats that require decisive joint action to address them in a way that does not compromise europe's fundamental values. the union should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, take greater responsibility for its own security and territorial defence, and take into account the intrinsic link between internal and external security. it needs to be constructive, flexible and a stronger player in a multipolar world. in order to build peace and stability, we must uphold our enlargement commitments and, in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy, continue to cooperate with countries with close links to the union. amongst others, these priorities are set out in the report entitled 'the role of the union in a changing global environment'. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces a number of complex challenges and threats that require decisive joint action to address them in a way that does not compromise europe's fundamental values. the union should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, take greater responsibility for its own security and territorial defence, and take into account the intrinsic link between internal and external security. you have to be constructive, flexible and strong in a multipolar world. in order to build peace and stability, we must uphold our enlargement commitments and, in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy, continue to cooperate with countries with close links to the union. amongst others, these priorities are set out in the report entitled 'the role of the union in a changing global environment'. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces a number of complex challenges and threats that require decisive joint action to address them in a way that does not compromise europe's fundamental values. the union should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, take greater responsibility for its own security and territorial defence, and take into account the intrinsic link between internal and external security. it needs to be constructive, flexible and a stronger player in a multipolar world. in order to build peace and stability, we must uphold our enlargement commitments and, in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy, continue to cooperate with countries with close links to the union. amongst others, these priorities are set out in the report entitled 'the role of the union in a changing global environment'. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces a number of complex challenges and threats that require decisive joint action to address them in a way that does not compromise europe's fundamental values. the union should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, take greater responsibility for its own security and territorial defence, and take into account the intrinsic link between internal and external security. it needs to be constructive, flexible and a stronger player in a multipolar world. in order to build peace and stability, we must uphold our enlargement commitments and continue to cooperate with countries with close links to the union in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy. amongst others, these priorities are set out in the report entitled 'the role of the union in a changing global environment'. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it important that the european parliament, through its own-initiative report, is involved in the preparation of the global strategy to be developed by the high representative/vice-president on the basis of a decision by the european council, and that this report provides an excellent basis for this. it is clear that the significant changes in the global environment in recent years, the new challenges such as terrorism and the deterioration of the concrete security environment of the european union due to mass migration, can only be addressed through a new, comprehensive and coherent defence and external relations strategy. (c) considers it important to strengthen the eu's substantive and organisational role in multilateral global governance; (d) highlights the urgency of closer and more targeted cooperation between the european union and other international actors, in particular nato; (e) attaches great importance to public opinion and the support of political and parliamentary forces in implementing the global strategy. for my part, as a member of the european parliament, i consider it particularly important and will continue to advocate for an increased role for the ep in the eu's external relations and defence activities, in the prevention and management of international conflicts and in the supervision of the activities of the eeas in general.
in writing. many of the current and future challenges and threats facing the european union stem from a complex and interconnected set of public and non-public actors. strong political will and leadership on the part of the union and its member states to act decisively together is needed to respond proactively, collectively and effectively to these challenges. the union's comprehensive foreign and security policy strategy should promote this development by defining the political level of the union's ambitions as an international actor. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i would like to emphasise that the eu has a strong strategic, political and economic interest in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with the central asian countries on the basis of commonly defined common values. the eu has a strong interest in a prosperous, peaceful, democratic, stable and inclusive central asia, which functions as an economically and environmentally sustainable region. despite the unsatisfactory results so far, i believe that the positive role played by the eu in the region should be further developed through education and people-to-people contacts, building on the experience of eu international exchange programmes such as erasmus+, erasmus mundus and erasmus tempus. it is welcome that the eu has allocated a budget of eur 115 million to the erasmus+ education cooperation programme in the region. i therefore supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu has a strong strategic political and economic interest in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of the region. we have a vested interest in a stable central asia. the eu strategy for central asia was adopted in the context of the growing importance of the region and, inter alia, the eu's energy security interests. however, in the area of women's rights, further efforts are needed to tackle gender inequalities. i voted in favour of the parliament's report on the implementation and review of the strategy for central asia.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on foreign affairs takes the view that the multiplicity and simultaneity of crises shows that no single member state can respond alone, and that europeans must jointly guarantee their own security. it states that threats to member states must be considered as threats to the union itself, that the borders of the member states are the borders of the union and must be protected as such. this requires strong unity and solidarity among member states and requires a consistent common foreign and security policy. it points out that in the future, the member states of the european union will have to act more unitedly and prepare to take on greater responsibility for their common security and territorial defence, relying less on the united states. it considers it a key objective to move towards permanent multinational joint military units, joint defence forces and the establishment of a common defence policy, which will eventually lead to a common defence. it calls for the establishment of a permanent eu high command to improve military crisis management capability and provide emergency response. finally, it called on the european union and its member states to strengthen defence capabilities and to make full use of the provisions of the lisbon treaty in the area of the common security and defence policy. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report, which now provides a regular overview of the implementation of the eu's 2007 central asia strategy, and of the development of our relations with the five partner countries concerned (kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan, turkmenistan, uzbekistan). i believe it is right that, in the light of european values, the report devotes a great deal of attention to the rule of law, democratic civil rights, freedom of the press and the promotion of equality between women and men. it notes with reason that, to varying degrees, but in practice, the five countries are lacking in the enforcement of these rights, and that, with some exceptions, no significant progress has been made despite the european union's best efforts. this situation also hinders the development of potentially important economic, energy and other links with eu member states, as identified in the report. the overall picture outlined in this report supports the need for a rethink and renewal of the eu's strategy for central asia, and the facts and considerations presented in this report provide a sound basis for this.
in writing. ‒ despite its common past, central asia is a multiethnic and multi-religious, heterogeneous region. the lack of mutual trust and the continuing tension over the use and sharing of natural resources have so far prevented the emergence of genuine regional cooperation. i voted for the report.
mr president of course i voted for the zika virus report. well, how about you vote on a report on a tragedy like this, another epidemic. but it was instructive, because i was very suspicious of the report, and i looked at it to see if it was in the interest of multinational companies, pharmaceutical companies. where's the possibility that the sensation-seeking media might distort things? and indeed, as the previous speaker said, it was not difficult to discover how the western world is forcing the cult of abortion on so-called developing countries, and how it is finding this opportunity in the face of such a tragedy, instead of focusing on the prevention of abortion in so-called developing countries, and in western europe, and in the european union as a whole. so on one side, there's always the global interest, the economic power and the political power intertwined, and on the other side, there's the vulnerable people trying to make sense of the connections in the midst of all the lies. thank you, sir.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on zika aims to clarify the problem of the virus and to call for proposals for a comprehensive solution. it is important to note that the text draws attention to the possibility and necessity of a global response that would prevent the emergence of an even more serious global epidemic. it also draws attention to the importance and the need to increase the effectiveness of biological defence against mosquitoes carrying the virus. the text highlights the link between poverty and the spread of disease in south american countries and the fact that women and girls in this social group are much more exposed than in other social groups. it is important to note, however, that the proposal calls on the eu to encourage women's rights and gender dialogue in countries affected by the epidemic. it should also be mentioned that he is also covertly trying to force the rights of sexual minorities in these countries. this is primarily about lgbtq rights. it is not acceptable to import these rights into states which take a different position on this issue on the pretext of the epidemic and to make aid to combat the spread of the epidemic conditional on the acceptance of such rights. despite this criticism, i supported the motion in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the situation is well illustrated by the fact that the who has declared the zika virus outbreak a public health emergency of international concern (pheic). it should be noted that young and poor women are particularly at risk of infection, especially those living in the least developed regions of the countries concerned. in addition, the international community urgently needs to put into practice the lessons learned from last year's ebola epidemic. i supported the text of the parliamentary resolution.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation (who) declared the zika virus outbreak a public health emergency of international concern in a statement on 1 february 2016, announcing that a cause and effect relationship between zika virus infection during pregnancy and microcephaly is highly likely, although this is still pending scientific proof. several european countries have reported cases of infection caused by the introduced zika virus: on 11 february 2016, the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) reported a case of microcephaly in a pregnant woman from slovenia, where the zika virus infection occurred during the pregnant woman's stay in brazil. the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety takes account of the options and actions that the european authorities can take to prevent the introduction of the zika virus into europe and the spread of infection in europe. it also places a strong emphasis on what the eu can do to help the competent authorities in different regions of the world, in particular in the outbreak areas in the north-east of brazil, to combat and eradicate the further spread of the outbreak. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion on the zika virus epidemic because i believe we need to raise awareness of all the challenges to public health. this virus is transmitted to humans by the bite of certain mosquitoes and causes small- headedness in newborns, among others. it is important to note that the same mosquito is the carrier of dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever. i believe that this is why we need to put a strong emphasis on scientific research, development and prevention. more so, since the infection can easily spread to europe. rapid testing, treatment and vaccination are needed to prevent the spread of the epidemic. the european union already has a health protection tool, namely the early warning and response system (ewrs). in order to ensure that this system is fully effective, its functioning needs to be continuously reviewed. in addition to zika virus, the proposal also addresses the link between the occurrence of smallpox in brazil and the larvicide piriproxifen, which was introduced into the drinking water system in 2014 in the affected areas of brazil, according to argentine and brazilian researchers. i think that this element should not be ignored, and we should also call attention to the unreasonable use of chemicals.
in writing. ‒ zika virus is a newly emerging mosquito-borne virus first identified in 1947 in the zika forest in uganda through a yellow fever monitoring network in rhesus monkeys. the zika virus outbreak highlighted the inequalities in the countries affected, including in terms of public health systems and living conditions, disproportionately affecting the poorest members of society, who often live near open water sources and are not adequately equipped to prevent and combat the disease. i supported him with my vote.
mr president it's rare in this room, this mostly empty room... let's be honest, we all know that this is not where decisions are made. so no one who sees these meetings through the monitor thinks that decisions are made here, when we are eight, ten, thirty, with the parentheses closed... so it is rare to hear a sensible speech, as clear, clear and professionally correct as that of our polish colleague in the polish debate, who said that we had asked in writing, in accordance with the rules, for the european union to set out the legal basis for its intervention in poland's internal affairs. we know this problem, hungary knows this problem. in our case, they couldn't show the legal basis, they didn't meet the deadline. three months have passed, they should have answered within six weeks. i would ask our dear friends in western europe to mind their own business now, and not to lecture us about democracy and the rule of law. they explain to their own population in germany, belgium and so on, for example, on what basis mass immigrants are allowed in against the expressed will of the population, and what is the rule of law there, where the police do not work, the various official bodies do not work, not to mention the secret services, etc. it is not poland or hungary, but belgium, for example, that is facing a growing threat of terrorism, with the complete absence of the rule of law, and the whole of europe is being put at risk... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. ‒ the joint proposal calls on the commission to launch the second stage of the rule of law procedure by submitting a rule of law recommendation if the polish government does not follow the recommendations of the venice commission in the structured dialogue and invites poland to help develop solutions to strengthen the rule of law. it is grotesque and repugnant that it should be the commission that should be making proposals to strengthen the rule of law, a commission that is not democratic, that is opaque, that represents globalist interests, that violates eu arbitrary norms on countless occasions, that acts without regard for the interests of the european people, such as when it determines the immigration distribution norm by qualified majority, in defiance of eu rules. i rejected the proposal because it prescribes an interference in the sovereign functioning of the polish state in an unacceptable manner, in violation of the existing eu standards, under the guise of protecting the liberal value system and the rule of law, and moreover, citing factually unfounded circumstances such as: in poland, the actual paralysis of the constitutional tribunal endangers democracy, human rights and the rule of law. other
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted today a resolution on the intervention in polish internal affairs with a double standard. that is unacceptable, which is why i voted against the resolution. the political attack launched against the democratically elected polish government last year is counterproductive, damaging to poland as a whole and undermining the credibility of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the political situation in poland, the enf, efdd and ecr groups have tabled a motion for a joint resolution on their own and the ppe, s&d, alde, gue/ngl and verts/ale groups have tabled a motion for a joint resolution. the joint draft states that the actions of the polish government and the president of the republic against the constitutional court endanger constitutional democracy. recommends that parliament express its serious concern that the de facto paralysis of the constitutional tribunal in poland is endangering democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and agrees with the opinion of the venice commission that the polish constitution and european and international standards require respect for the decisions of the constitutional tribunal; calls on the polish government to fully implement the recommendations of the venice commission and to respect, publish and fully implement the judgments of the constitutional tribunal of 3 and 9 december 2015 and 9 march 2016 without further delay; finally, it expects the commission to monitor and report to parliament on the respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in all member states in the same way in order to avoid double standards. i voted in favour of the joint text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, especially as a hungarian representative, i have to bear in mind that the situation with the democratic deficit in my country is at least as serious as in poland due to the government's policies. i believe it is appropriate and important that the european parliament and the other eu institutions assess the validation of european values on a regular basis, on the basis of the same criteria, in all member states. the european parliament is taking the lead in this principled political endeavour, and i hope that it will be able to contribute to improving democratic relations in hungary, following the example of poland. in the case of poland, the report focuses on the importance of restricting constitutional adjudication and taking into account the recommendations of the venice commission in this regard. i consider it a shortcoming that due to the political compromise required for broad parliamentary support the report does not address criticism of other political aspirations and practices of the polish government that violate fundamental rights, in particular the outrageous draft abortion law. i supported the report, however, in the hope that these issues would be included in the structured dialogue between the european commission and the polish government and in the ep's future political action.
in writing. ‒ recent events in poland, notably the political and legal debate on the composition of the constitutional tribunal and its new rules of operation, raise concerns about the constitutional tribunal's ability to uphold the constitution and guarantee respect for the rule of law. the venice commission has strongly stated that the constitutional tribunal is unable to fulfil its task of guaranteeing the primacy of the constitution of poland, as its decision of 9 march 2016 has not been published and therefore cannot enter into force, which threatens the rule of law. the venice commission warned that paralysing the constitutional tribunal would endanger democracy, human rights and the rule of law. i voted in favour of the s&d group's proposal.
the following agenda item is for the joint debate on the following reports: recommendation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data for the purposes of second reading (a8-0139/2016) [05419/1/2016 - c8-0140/2016 - 2012/0011 (cod)) by jan philipp albrecht on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and recommendation on the processing of personal data for the purposes of preventing and combating crime (a8-0138/2016) [05418/1/2016 - c8-0139/2016 - 2012/0010 (cod)) by marju lauristin on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs
we now come to the group leaders.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity, madam president, and i thank the honourable member in advance for her willingness to answer my question. i'm not really gonna argue with you about your sentences, but i'd like to ask you about one thing. i ask you, as a person familiar with the subject, are you satisfied with the way this directive is being treated by the current public? in particular, can you see any guarantee that citizens will be adequately informed about this fundamental right? thank you very much.
for the sake of our discussion today, i'd like to briefly remind you of the essence of the world picture revealed by edward snowden. it turns out that in the western world, almost the entire population is under mass surveillance, without judicial authorization, without any suspicion that these officials have committed a crime, or terrorism, or are about to commit a crime. on the other hand, the circle of persons suspected of terrorism or preparing to commit terrorism can be precisely identified, but they are not properly monitored, and they are not dealt with in a professional manner. the data available on them shall not be aggregated or exchanged. this was the case with the tragedy that occurred in brussels, for example. it didn't happen because they weren't listening and watching more innocent people. thank you, sir.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 14 april 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr timothy kirkhope on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the use of eu passenger name record (pnr) data (a8-0248/2015).
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for this opportunity, mr. president. i would like to ask my colleague whether he agrees with me that the security of the european union as a whole is in fact determined by the least secure country in europe, that is to say, the weakest link in the chain. in light of this, i ask you, although you have listed different ways, what about some governments - governments of eu member states - giving citizenship or residence permits to different people without verification for actual money? thank you, sir.
in writing. the recent terrorist attacks have shown that there is no freedom without security, and that everything must be done to ensure the security of european citizens. we must re-create the sense of security of european citizens, which means very firm, tough measures, coordinated european police, intelligence and, last but not least, political measures. this requires the sharing of information, for example through the passenger name record (pnr) system. this will prevent people from entering europe who have been identified as potential terrorists elsewhere, but who are still able to move freely within the union by abusing the schengen system. the compromise text was agreed in december, but the formal sanctioning of the european parliament has been pending since then because of the irresponsible game of the left-wing parties. we hope that the left will finally understand that the legitimate expectation of european citizens from today's decision-makers is to protect them and restore their sense of security. the european passenger name record system will help to achieve this.
blue-card question.– you mentioned some of the shortcomings as well but, in spite of this fact, do you not think that the case of albania could be shown and demonstrated as a really good example for all those countries in the neighbourhood which are much further behind?
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, first allow me to express my great thanks to the rapporteur who, as usual, has been very constructive in the shadow meetings. i think that we have a good progress report on albania. i am glad to see on this occasion that the only issues that need raising in this very short time are the classic green issues. possibly this is the only accession country nowadays – maybe with the exception of serbia – that poses us no bigger problems than asking the albanian government to make concerted efforts to align its environmental policies with eu standards, do everything in its power to meet the chapter 27 requirements and also reconsider its hydroelectric policies. some of the hydro plants need to be reconsidered. i am glad to be able to say that, because there are other countries for which there are much bigger issues at stake in the accession negotiations. although it is true that albania is also facing the classic problems of south—eastern europe, with endemic corruption and a number of other shortcomings in good governance, it does – i am glad to say – seem to be on the right track. i hope very much that it will successfully conclude all the negotiations and become part of the european union very soon.
thank you very much for the opportunity, and first of all, i would like to say very humbly to some of my colleagues that i think this kind of demeaning, belittling style has no place in relation to albania either. the european perspective of albania is simply a security issue, a european security issue. so i'd like to recommend a few of our colleagues for more responsibility. we must maintain the real prospect of accession for albania. some results are encouraging: albania has made significant progress in its public administration reform. this is indicated by the adoption of the new civil service law or the transformation of the territorial administration. of course, there is a need to take strong action against organized crime, for example. there is still little progress in the detection of criminal organisations and illicit trade. the country's future transformation can be driven by eu membership. in addition to its successes and justified criticism, albania deserves the encouragement and recognition of europe. i would like to stress once again that it is in our common interest that the albanian accession should be given a new impetus as soon as possible. thank you very much. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
blue-card answer.– thank you very much for your very relevant question. i can join you with this question, and maybe we will have an answer a little bit later from the side of the commission.
in writing. on 15 february, bosnia and herzegovina submitted its application to join the eu, the only former yugoslav member state to do so, ahead of kosovo. it is noteworthy that the european commission has for the first time given a more positive assessment of bosnia and herzegovina's ambitions than in previous years. however, it is not disputed that the accession process is hampered by several factors. bosnia and herzegovina has a number of problems to overcome before full membership. the main requirements for accession include reform of the public administration, the establishment of an independent judiciary, economic growth and social justice, and, perhaps most importantly, the development of a coordination mechanism for cooperation between the two parts of the country and the brcko district in order to join the union. it is also necessary to amend the discriminatory electoral law against the non-national minorities of the three constituent states. the submission of the application for membership in february was historic, giving bosnia an opportunity to accelerate the process of economic and political stabilisation and to embark on the path of accession supported by its citizens. i am therefore confident that, 21 years after the dayton peace agreement, genuine reforms will help to accelerate the process of integration of bosnia and herzegovina into the european union. i believe that supporting bosnia and herzegovina's european union perspective is also key to a united europe.
rapporteur.– mr president, i think the topic we are going to discuss at this early hour on the last day of our part session this week is very important. first of all, allow me to thank everybody who has contributed to the work, especially the shadow rapporteurs, who have been very helpful, very flexible and very professional in working out a text which i believe can command a fairly large consensus in the house. this was not very easy to achieve. it was very important that the shadows put their work and their commitment into the whole topic. although i am listed as the author, i have to thank all my colleagues in my group and especially my advisers, who helped considerably in putting together a text which has a chance of passing, and which i hope will pass on the vote today. we are not getting any closer to the 2020 anti-poverty target. we are actually, by all important measurements, further away from the 2020 anti-poverty targets than when they were originally formulated. this is only partly due to the financial crisis of 2008 – after all, we are in the ninth year after the crisis – so we have a basic structural problem. the report is not on that, but one of the key elements in this attempt to reduce poverty in the european union is related to basic resources, household costs and household expenditure. i believe that, fundamentally, energy and water are essential resources which are necessary for the survival of any household in the european union. they are essential especially because we are more and more dependent, individually and in groups, on energy. at the same time, energy prices have been continually rising in the last almost half a decade, which makes the problem more serious than we would have thought at the time when the anti-poverty target was put together. at the time when this was formulated there was a widespread consensus that poverty is a complex global phenomenon which requires complex global treatment. so some of my colleagues, with an honest conviction, thought that selecting a particular type of poverty from the complex web of poverty might be a mistake. i would like to defend the view that energy poverty, or fuel poverty, is one of the most important elements in this, because it usually requires an upfront investment. simple direct income support is not going to help those who are in this trap, because it requires an upfront investment. that is why what we are asking for primarily is to have a complex policy set which simultaneously attacks all the three elements of energy poverty, one of them being insufficient income, another being energy efficiency – basically the quality of the housing stock in much of europe. eastern europe is significantly different in this respect to western europe. in eastern europe we do not have a meaningful social housing system, and that contributes to, and exacerbates, the problem. finally, i would like to mention that we believe that a winter disconnection moratorium on heating is a must. nobody should die in europe because of not having heating available.
on behalf of the verts/ale group - mr president! there is a very important report on the table in parliament today. in europe, the number of citizens affected by energy poverty is estimated to be between 50 and 120 million. energy poverty can take different forms in different member states, which is why well-targeted, well-designed european measures are needed, and equally, national measures are needed to eliminate or reduce energy poverty in europe. the social instruments have been discussed a lot, and i have to say that the most important thing about the various social transfers is that they are properly targeted, that the aid from public funds reaches those who really need it. equally important are the safeguards that the report includes: eviction restrictions and other tools to help prevent european citizens and families from being put in an impossible situation. but in the long run, we have one coherent, sustainable, effective way to reduce energy poverty, and that is not by helping to reduce it or paying the bills out of public money, but by reducing energy use, and that is by providing the right forms of financing to help citizens access energy efficiency and renewable resources.
i would like to congratulate my hungarian colleague, mr tomás meszerics, on this report. well, it revealed shocking data about the poverty, the misery that exists in the european union. the number of poor people has gone from 117 million to 122.6 million in five years. i would ask the president to warn our colleagues not to speak in this room, because you cannot speak in this manner when you are having a coffee-house conversation. i'm constantly being talked to, so please stop the clock and tell the previous speaker that this is not working. so we have to respect each other, we have to respect our constituents by providing a normal environment for each other to speak. thank you very much. so shockingly, these numbers show that, not that it's going to go down, but that poverty in the european union is going to go up from 117 million to 122.6 million in five years, and 16.7 percent of the population is now living in poverty. among other things, the report states that 60% of the inhabitants of the most affected member states are unable to heat their homes to the right temperature. i assume you mean our own country, hungary, or other countries considered second-class. but let's be clear, you'll agree with me that these miserable conditions are not the result of some natural disaster, but the result of choices. among other things, the consequences of the decisions of the union, and the essence of the union, is this poverty, this misery, and this internal colonization. because it pursues a neoliberal politics and economic policy based on money and profit, based on global free trade, instead of pursuing a people-centered politics and economic policy where it asks what is good for the people, and not always what is good for profit, and for big investors and multi-corporations. thank you, sir.
blue-card question.– thank you very much for your availability, dear colleague. as a matter of fact, you have listed quite a few measures, but my question is: would you, or your group, be in favour of a european minimum wage system?
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to assure the commissioner that as long as the house passes this report, she can count on my cooperation with her at any time on any elements of the question. this was indeed a rich and thoughtful debate. i regularly learn a lot in this house, and this was one of those occasions. i would like to thank everyone who contributed. there is only one element that i would like to raise from the report, which has not been directly addressed so far, which is that on the energy poverty side we have a clear technical problem: we do not have a common definition. i would very much like the house to understand that, without having a common definition with which we can compare the situation across the board, we are not going to be able to tackle the problem seriously. it is the necessary beginning of the long, hard work that is needed on this. i would say to my colleague from the efdd, who may already have left, that he might have been less surprised by the tone and the elements of this report had he been consulting his group’s own shadow rapporteur, who did not find elements of the text to be part of a communist manifesto. i would also say to my colleague, mrs morvai, that we agree that austerity measures do contribute to poverty, but such austerity measures are introduced and actually practised at member state level. it is member state governments which are responsible for the austerity measures most of the time. therefore, much of the increase in poverty is also the responsibility of the member states’ governments. thank you again for your contributions. i hope that you will vote for the report in plenary.
in writing. the european parliament blames high government expenditure for the fight against poverty, noting that only a few member states have improved poverty-related indicators. hungary is among these countries thanks to the success of its reduction of rescission and i am therefore pleased that the report, following my amendment, encourages the exchange of good practice between eu countries. by accepting my amendment, the report also asks the commission to grant member states greater flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can allocate eu funds more effectively to reducing energy poverty or improving housing conditions. i should point out that in line with the report, which urges member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency, hungary is continuing the home heating programme, under which the ministry of national development provides non-repayable aid of huf 5 billion for the energy upgrading and renovation of family homes. i think it is important to point out that, in parallel with the reduction of the deficit, there is a need for consumption incentives to increase resources for consumer durables or for domestic tourism. it is also important that the commission works on the basis of objective data, for which it is essential to take into account the actual financial situation (housing, debts) instead of the current surveys, which are partly based on self-declaration.
in writing. the problem of energy poverty, to which the report gives a laudable amount of attention, deserves to be approached from another angle, that of fundamental rights. the process of extension of rights cannot be stopped, because economic and technological development and the modernisation of society force fundamental rights to be reconsidered and supplemented from time to time. for example, the right to vote and to stand as a candidate did not become a universally recognised fundamental right until the second half of the 20th century, even in europe. i believe it is time to recognize access to energy, clean water and the internet as a fundamental right. finland, estonia, greece, spain, france, belgium have already recognised one or the other of these as a fundamental right. this is not a matter of financial capacity, but rather of political will to expand; countries that are not at the top of the world in terms of gdp per capita, such as india, congo, bolivia or mexico, are moving in this direction. my party, the democratic coalition, has included in its program the provision of a minimum amount of energy and drinking water, as well as a minimum bandwidth of internet access free of charge to households in hungary. south africa provides 25 litres of water a day to every household free of charge, and belgium has had a law since 1997 guaranteeing free minimum water, electricity and natural gas services to all. in the near future, i intend to propose that the european union also recognise access to energy, drinking water and the internet as a fundamental right and call on member states to provide these minimum public services free of charge.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr deva. let me briefly outline to you three different models for alleviating poverty in the developing world and providing jobs: firstly, big western investors, including multinationals, going to the area, utilising their agricultural land and natural resources and providing jobs for local people; secondly, lots of food, dumping on local markets and therefore preventing local farmers from growing; and thirdly, supporting local small and medium-sized enterprises and local farmers. which of the three would you prefer and support?
my fellow members of parliament! so, to clarify, the attack in pakistan on easter was aimed at christians on their religious holiday. with them, and with all the victims of other faiths who were at the scene, we express our deep sympathy and condolences to the victims and their families. innocent people were killed for one reason, the taliban murderers were trying to stop them in their faith. in pakistan, in recent years, there has been a dramatic increase in the taliban mentality and in radical movements in general. we know that the government is making efforts, but it cannot control the escalating violence. there's hope, there's hope. and as a result of this, as a result of this tragedy, there is a movement, a small movement, but it exists between muslims and christians, the ruardari tehrik, which is a movement of tolerance. pakistan, europe, we need to do more and more to change this situation. thank you for your attention.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, thursday, april 14, 2016.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the situation of human rights defenders in honduras.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, april 14, 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the seven motions for resolutions on nigeria.
i'm suspending the debate until the vote.
madam president, i propose that the two remaining items be postponed to voting time in the next part—session. they will take more than 30 minutes to vote on and we have already lost one third of the house. i therefore propose we conclude here.
my fellow citizens! why do we need data protection? why do we need to protect privacy, privacy, privacy? that's a question a lot of people ask me these days. short story: i have heard from both men and women how ashamed they were of themselves and how humiliated they felt when it was customary to call several patients for a medical examination at once under our previous system, the so-called socialism. they had to strip in front of each other and talk about their illnesses. why was that such a big deal? well, they all have bodies, they're called identical, women have female bodies, illness is a natural thing, there's no shame in it, we might say. yet they felt, and rightly so, that their right to human dignity had been violated by the intrusion into their innermost, most intimate privacy - so to speak - by this humiliating measure. i'll take it from here in my next speech.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the data protection package. the compromise text of the data protection dossier was formally approved by the european council on 8 april, after which it only needed to be approved by the parliament. once approved by the plenary, member states will have two years (until 2018) to transpose it into national law. these rules overwrite and modernise more than 20 years of eu data protection legislation, since at that time there was no mass internet use, no facebook, no google. the objective is to guarantee the widest possible control of individuals over their personal data, while ensuring that data processing does not hinder the development of the digital single market or the acquisition of data to counter terrorist threats. the data protection package consists of a regulation on the protection and use of personal data and a public security data protection directive, which provides for data processing to facilitate the flow of information between law enforcement and judicial bodies.
in writing. ‒ on 25 january 2012, the commission presented a proposal to replace directive 95/46/ec with a regulation establishing a general eu framework for data protection. on 12 march 2014, parliament discussed the proposal at first reading, while the belgian chamber of deputies, the german bundesrat, the french senate, the italian chamber of deputies and the swedish parliament submitted reasoned opinions to the effect that the draft legislative act is not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the council's position at first reading of 8 april 2016 reflects the political agreement reached between the european parliament and the council at the informal trilateral consultation of 15 december 2015. the commission agrees with the council's position at first reading. in its recommendation for second reading, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament endorse the position adopted by the council at first reading. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to adopt the council position, as the political agreement approved by the council preserved the objectives of the commission proposal, which i also supported, which were primarily aimed at strengthening personal rights, consolidating the eu internal market, tightening enforcement and creating global data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur agrees with the position adopted by the council at first reading and notes that the legislative act was adopted in accordance with the council's position. it therefore proposes the signing of the legislative act. i supported him with my vote.
so what the citizen is saying is that i have nothing to hide, nothing to hide, i'm giving up my privacy, my privacy, my privacy. i'm embracing this piece of my human dignity. i give the government, the powers that be, the intelligence agencies, international organizations, all my thoughts, all my feelings. you can listen in, you can listen in, you can read my e-mail, you can do anything, because that's how i win my security. unfortunately, they are very wrong, and there is no such causal relationship, as i will explain in the third part of my speech, but the state, and big brother, big brother, can collect all the data, and it can use this data as it pleases, which in itself makes people vulnerable, and is a gross violation of human dignity. thank you very much.
in writing. – with today’s vote on processing of personal data for the purposes of crime prevention we reached an important balance between the high-level protection of personal data on one side and the need to give support to police forces in their investigations on the other side. we achieved a common frame to allow an efficient exchange of information among law enforcement bodies, securing personal data and giving police forces enough space to be effective and cooperative in their investigations. we are in favour of this final document, as it is important to give all possible support to law enforcement authorities, especially in the present emergency situation with regard to terrorism.
in writing. ‒ on 25 january 2012, the commission presented a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection, prosecution or execution of criminal offences, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing council framework decision 2008/977/jha. on 12 march 2014, the parliament discussed the proposal at first reading, the german bundesrat and the swedish parliament submitted a reasoned opinion, according to which the draft legislative act is not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the council's position at first reading of 8 april 2016 reflects the political agreement reached between the european parliament and the council at the informal trilateral consultation of 15 december 2015. the commission agrees with the council's position at first reading. in its recommendation for second reading, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament endorse the position adopted by the council at first reading. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the recommendation on the council position. the commission's data protection reform package aims to establish a modern, consistent and comprehensive eu data protection framework. i agree with this objective and, as the political agreement approved by the council also maintains that a high level of protection of personal data should be ensured in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and that the exchange of personal data between police and judicial authorities in the member states should be facilitated, i was able to support it.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur agrees with the position adopted by the council at first reading and notes that the legislative act was adopted in accordance with the council's position. it therefore proposes the signing of the legislative act. i supported him with my vote.
i would have been so happy to have celebrated with my colleagues in the house who have given a generous reward for the adoption of this air passenger register. i'd be so happy to think that this is the end of terrorism. we can go on vacation with the families, we don't have to worry anymore. well, i'm afraid that's not the case. i have tried to ask mrs mogherini and mr albrecht, who, as a great democrat, refuses to answer a question of a blue card when it is his political opponent. the fundamental question i wanted to ask in this session is that if they can pinpoint precisely the circle, the few thousand people in europe who are really dangerous from the point of view of terrorism, see the case in brussels, where these people were absolutely in the sights of the authorities, then why aren't they doing something about them? so why wait until these well-known people from the molenbeek district of brussels and the rest of the people who can be identified without a pnr, flying like a hairy syria between the islamic state and europe... we know about them, and yet they're free to roam. that should be changed, please, not the innocent, unrelated passengers who are now being checked for the color of their underwear. there's no connection between our safety and this. i'm sorry, but i want to.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks have shown that there is no freedom without security, and that everything must be done to ensure the security of european citizens. this is why information sharing through, for example, the passenger name record (pnr) system is necessary, as the introduction of a european pnr can also be an important tool in the fight against terrorism in the member states. this prevents people from entering europe who have been identified as potential terrorists somewhere, but who can still move freely within the union by exploiting the migration wave and abusing the schengen system. the compromise text of the regulation on passenger name recording was drawn up in december and can now be formally adopted by the european parliament. european citizens have a legitimate expectation that today's decision-makers will protect them and restore their sense of security. the european passenger name record system is helping to achieve this, and i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks have shown that there is no freedom without security, and that everything must be done to ensure the security of european citizens. this is why information sharing through, for example, the passenger name record (pnr) system is necessary, as the introduction of a european pnr can also be an important tool in the fight against terrorism in the member states. this prevents people from entering europe who have been identified as potential terrorists somewhere, but who can still move freely within the union by exploiting the migration wave and abusing the schengen system. the compromise text of the regulation on passenger registers was agreed in december, but the formal sanctioning of the european parliament has been pending since then due to the irresponsible game of the left-wing parties. we hope that the left will finally understand that the legitimate expectation of european citizens from today's decision-makers is to protect them and restore their sense of security. this european passenger name record system will help to do that.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks have shown that there is no freedom without security, and that everything must be done to ensure the security of european citizens. this is why information sharing through, for example, the passenger name record (pnr) system is necessary, as the introduction of a european pnr can also be an important tool in the fight against terrorism in the member states. this prevents people from entering europe who have been identified as potential terrorists somewhere, but who can still move freely within the union by exploiting the migration wave and abusing the schengen system. the compromise text of the regulation on passenger registers was agreed in december, but the formal sanctioning of the european parliament has been pending since then due to the irresponsible game of the left-wing parties. we hope that the left will finally understand that the legitimate expectation of european citizens from today's decision-makers is to protect them and restore their sense of security. this european passenger name record system will help to do that.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks have shown that there is no freedom without security, and that everything must be done to ensure the security of european citizens. this requires the sharing of information, for example through the passenger name record (pnr) system, as the introduction of a european pnr can also be an important tool in the fight against terrorism in the member states. this prevents people from entering europe who have been identified as potential terrorists somewhere, but who can still move freely within the union by exploiting the migration wave and abusing the schengen system. the compromise text of the regulation on passenger registers was agreed in december, but the formal sanctioning of the european parliament has been pending since then due to the irresponsible game of the left-wing parties. we hope that the left will finally understand that the legitimate expectation of european citizens from today's decision-makers is to protect them and restore their sense of security. this european passenger name record system will help to do that.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks have shown that there is no freedom without security, and that everything must be done to ensure the security of european citizens. this is why information sharing through, for example, the passenger name record (pnr) system is necessary, as the introduction of a european pnr can also be an important tool in the fight against terrorism in the member states. this prevents people from entering europe who have been identified as potential terrorists somewhere, but who can still move freely within the union by exploiting the migration wave and abusing the schengen system. the compromise text of the regulation on passenger registers was agreed in december, but the formal sanctioning of the european parliament has been pending since then due to the irresponsible game of the left-wing parties. we hope that the left will finally understand that the legitimate expectation of european citizens from today's decision-makers is to protect them and restore their sense of security. this european passenger name record system will help to do that.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks have shown that there is no freedom without security, and that everything must be done to ensure the security of european citizens. this requires the sharing of information, for example through the passenger name record (pnr) system, as the introduction of a european pnr can also be an important tool in the fight against terrorism in the member states. this prevents people from entering europe who have been identified as potential terrorists somewhere, but who can still move freely within the union by exploiting the migration wave and abusing the schengen system. the compromise text of the regulation on passenger registers was agreed in december, but the formal sanctioning of the european parliament has been pending since then due to the irresponsible game of the left-wing parties. we hope that the left will finally understand that the legitimate expectation of european citizens from today's decision-makers is to protect them and restore their sense of security. this european passenger name record system will help to do that.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks have shown that there is no freedom without security, and that everything must be done to ensure the security of european citizens. this is why information sharing through, for example, the passenger name record (pnr) system is necessary, as the introduction of a european pnr can also be an important tool in the fight against terrorism in the member states. this prevents people from entering europe who have been identified as potential terrorists somewhere, but who can still move freely within the union by exploiting the migration wave and abusing the schengen system. the compromise text of the regulation on passenger registers was agreed in december, but the formal sanctioning of the european parliament has been pending since then due to the irresponsible game of the left-wing parties. we hope that the left will finally understand that the legitimate expectation of european citizens from today's decision-makers is to protect them and restore their sense of security. this european passenger name record system will help to do that.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks have shown that there is no freedom without security, and that everything must be done to ensure the security of european citizens. this is why information sharing through, for example, the passenger name record (pnr) system is necessary, as the introduction of a european pnr can also be an important tool in the fight against terrorism in the member states. this prevents people from entering europe who have been identified as potential terrorists somewhere, but who can still move freely within the union by exploiting the migration wave and abusing the schengen system. the compromise text of the regulation on passenger registers was agreed in december, but the formal sanctioning of the european parliament has been pending since then due to the irresponsible game of the left-wing parties. we hope that the left will finally understand that the legitimate expectation of european citizens from today's decision-makers is to protect them and restore their sense of security. this european passenger name record system will help to do that.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament adopt the proposal with 90 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the adoption of the motion for a resolution because i consider the guarantees provided in its present form regarding the use and storage of pnr data to be insufficient. it cannot be ignored that there are governments and authorities in europe today which, in a given political situation, may be prepared to use pnr data for other purposes. mass surveillance, personal data processing, i think, may be able to reinforce a sense of fear and vulnerability in the population, while not actually helping the success of the fight against terrorism. however, the proposal does not contain any substantive proposals, for example, for a mandatory exchange of information between member states' authorities, or for making the fight against terrorism more effective.
in writing. ‒ i support any position based on defining rules that improve the competitiveness of european companies through innovation. they also reinforce europe's leading role in the global market for industry. the appropriate protection of trade secrets is crucial for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). they generally have to rely on them to a greater extent, as the use of iprs is often costly in terms of resources for ipr management and protection.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the efdd, verts/ale, s&d, ppe, ecr, gue/ngl and alde groups. apart from gue/ngl, the other six groups reached a compromise and drew up a joint text. i voted in favour of this compromise bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure, a regulatory area of crucial importance for the functioning of the internal market and the eu's competitiveness. i agree with the additions which stress the importance of a balanced approach, since in addition to protecting against the unauthorised acquisition of trade secrets, it is also necessary to bear in mind that knowledge and the flow of information are the basic conditions for innovation. i also support the amendment which points out that while some member states already have legal provisions to protect against the misuse of trade secrets, some eu countries have not even defined the concept of trade secrets and have not introduced binding legislation to protect against the misuse of trade secrets. those differences hamper the effective functioning of the internal market and it is therefore necessary to define at union level the situations in which the acquisition, use and disclosure of a trade secret are lawful and those in which they are not. i also support the idea that the measures contained in the directive should not be applied in such a way as to unfairly restrict competition or impede the mobility of workers.
in writing. ‒ protection against the unauthorised acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is one of the keys to ensuring a fair business environment for businesses. however, it is important to remember that the flow of knowledge and information is also essential for innovation and the creative process. companies often have a greater interest in sharing trade secrets than in keeping them secret. at the same time, transparency and access to information are also necessary for the informed design of important public policies, such as environmental, health and consumer protection. i supported him with my vote.
when it comes to the budget, whether it's the budget of the european union or the budget of the european parliament, the question is always: who pays the sculptor? and we're always looked down on, we're always looked down on, we're from central and eastern europe, we're from poorer countries, and we're constantly getting comments like, "oh, we don't talk, we don't make our own decisions, we don't think for ourselves on immigration and all that stuff, because we pay so little and we get so much". it would be very good to clarify this question in all areas now. it's enough to talk about the land. no matter how much we asked, we could not achieve so far that hungarian farmland does not fall into foreign hands. these are the things that don't count when they look at how much we pay, how much we sacrifice. but now, at last, a very serious movement is beginning to demand a revision of the accession treaty, so that hungarian farmland can never be sold to foreigners. thank you, sir.
in writing. ‒ the report on the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017 reflects the agreement reached between the bureau of the european parliament and the committee on budgets on the draft budget of the european parliament for 2017. the main points of the agreement are: to provide an additional €47.64 million in 2017 for security investments and €3.7 million for the introduction of irish as an official language; not counting the above amounts, to reduce the draft of the presidency of the european parliament by €20 million in other lines, so that the increase in the budget in 2017 compared to 2016 does not exceed 1.4%; and to introduce a new budget line in the ep budget to finance construction. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the tarand report on the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017 reflects the agreement reached between the bureau of the european parliament and the committee on budgets on the draft budget of the european parliament for 2017. the main points of the agreement are: to provide an additional €47.64 million in 2017 for security investments and €3.7 million for the introduction of gaelic as an official language; not counting the above amounts, to reduce the draft of the presidency of the european parliament by €20 million in other lines, so that the increase in the budget in 2017 compared to 2016 does not exceed 1.4%; and to introduce a new budget line in the ep budget to finance construction works. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the tarand report on the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017 reflects the agreement reached between the bureau of the european parliament and the committee on budgets on the draft budget of the european parliament for 2017. the main points of the agreement are: to provide an additional €47.64 million in 2017 for security investments and €3.7 million for the introduction of gaelic as an official language; not counting the above amounts, to reduce the draft of the presidency of the european parliament by €20 million in other lines, so that the increase in the budget in 2017 compared to 2016 does not exceed 1.4%; and to introduce a new budget line in the ep budget to finance construction works. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the tarand report on the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017 reflects the agreement reached between the bureau of the european parliament and the committee on budgets on the draft budget of the european parliament for 2017. the main points of the agreement are: to provide an additional €47.64 million in 2017 for security investments and €3.7 million for the introduction of gaelic as an official language; not counting the above amounts, to reduce the draft of the presidency of the european parliament by €20 million in other lines, so that the increase in the budget in 2017 compared to 2016 does not exceed 1.4%; and to introduce a new budget line in the ep budget to finance construction works. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have adopted the draft estimates for parliament's financial year 2017.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgets has prepared and submitted the draft budgetary proposal for the european parliament's estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. i agree with the parts of the report that emphasise the importance of physical and cyber security, and with the request that the secretary-general provide detailed information on current and future security and cyber security measures and the distribution of their costs. i agree with the rapporteur that any security measures should be based on a clear assessment of parliament's needs and that they should be proportionate to the risks involved. i also welcome the comment on the parliament's website that it should be made more informative and user-friendly for citizens. i also welcome the proposals made under the paperless initiative, which not only increases efficiency but also has a positive economic impact.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the current political and security situation in europe, which has been characterised by terrorist attacks, the security and cybersecurity of parliament should be enhanced during the 2017 budgetary procedure. this is reflected in the proposal which includes additional budgetary adjustments for other reasons. aside from certain points and modifications, i supported the package.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a strategic partner of the union because of its economic and strategic location and its important role in the region, underlines the report on turkey, which was voted on today and deals with the country's progress in the european accession negotiations launched in 2005. the document also examines the commitment of the turkish authorities to reforms and their implementation in the areas of the judiciary, the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. the document specifically highlights the importance of the country in dealing with the refugee and migration crisis. while supporting renewed political cooperation between the two sides in the context of the crisis, it also stresses that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be linked to the accession negotiations process. turkey urgently needs reforms in the areas of justice, the rule of law and human rights. the report says that turkey must respect its commitments to european integration in line with european values, guarantee fundamental rights and ensure the cultural, social and political rights of the kurdish national community. in the light of these arguments, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a strategic partner of the union because of its economic and strategic location and its important role in the region, underlines the report on turkey, which was voted on today and deals with the country's progress in the european accession negotiations launched in 2005. the document also examines the commitment of the turkish authorities to reforms and their implementation in the areas of the judiciary, the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. the document specifically highlights the importance of the country in dealing with the refugee and migration crisis. while supporting renewed political cooperation between the two sides in the context of the crisis, it also stresses that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be linked to the accession negotiations process. turkey urgently needs reforms in the areas of justice, the rule of law and human rights. we must call on turkey to honour its commitments to european integration in line with european values, to guarantee fundamental rights, to guarantee the cultural, social and political rights of the kurdish national community and, facing up to its own past, to officially recognise and justify the armenian genocide. in the light of these arguments, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a strategic partner of the union because of its economic and strategic location and its important role in the region, underlines the report on turkey, which was voted on today and deals with the country's progress in the european accession negotiations launched in 2005. the document also examines the commitment of the turkish authorities to reforms and their implementation in the areas of the judiciary, the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. the document specifically highlights the importance of the country in dealing with the refugee and migration crisis. while supporting renewed political cooperation between the two sides in the context of the crisis, it also stresses that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be linked to the accession negotiations process. turkey urgently needs reforms in the areas of justice, the rule of law and human rights. we must call on turkey to honour its commitments to european integration in line with european values, to guarantee fundamental rights, to guarantee the cultural, social and political rights of the kurdish national community and, facing up to its own past, to officially recognise and justify the armenian genocide. in the light of these arguments, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a strategic partner of the union because of its economic and strategic location and its important role in the region, underlines the report on turkey, which was voted on today and deals with the country's progress in the european accession negotiations launched in 2005. the document also examines the commitment of the turkish authorities to reforms and their implementation in the areas of the judiciary, the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. the document specifically highlights the importance of the country in dealing with the refugee and migration crisis. while supporting renewed political cooperation between the two sides in the context of the crisis, it also stresses that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be linked to the accession negotiations process. turkey urgently needs reforms in the areas of justice, the rule of law and human rights. we must call on turkey to honour its commitments to european integration in line with european values, to guarantee fundamental rights, to guarantee the cultural, social and political rights of the kurdish national community and, facing up to its own past, to officially recognise and justify the armenian genocide. in the light of these arguments, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a strategic partner of the union because of its economic and strategic location and its important role in the region, underlines the report on turkey, which was voted on today and deals with the country's progress in the european accession negotiations launched in 2005. the document also examines the commitment of the turkish authorities to reforms and their implementation in the areas of the judiciary, the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. the document specifically highlights the importance of the country in dealing with the refugee and migration crisis. while supporting renewed political cooperation between the two sides in the context of the crisis, it also stresses that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be linked to the accession negotiations process. turkey urgently needs reforms in the areas of justice, the rule of law and human rights. we must call on turkey to honour its commitments to european integration in line with european values, to guarantee fundamental rights, to guarantee the cultural, social and political rights of the kurdish national community and, facing up to its own past, to officially recognise and justify the armenian genocide. in the light of these arguments, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a strategic partner of the union because of its economic and strategic location and its important role in the region, underlines the report on turkey, which was voted on today and deals with the country's progress in the european accession negotiations launched in 2005. the document also examines the commitment of the turkish authorities to reforms and their implementation in the areas of the judiciary, the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. the document specifically highlights the importance of the country in dealing with the refugee and migration crisis. while supporting renewed political cooperation between the two sides in the context of the crisis, it also stresses that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be linked to the accession negotiations process. turkey urgently needs reforms in the areas of justice, the rule of law and human rights. we must call on turkey to respect its commitments to european integration in line with european values, to guarantee fundamental rights, to guarantee the cultural, social and political rights of the kurdish national community and to face up to its own past. in the light of these arguments, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a strategic partner of the union because of its economic and strategic location and its important role in the region, underlines the report on turkey, which was voted on today and deals with the country's progress in the european accession negotiations launched in 2005. the document also examines the commitment of the turkish authorities to reforms and their implementation in the areas of the judiciary, the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. the document specifically highlights the importance of the country in dealing with the refugee and migration crisis. while supporting renewed political cooperation between the two sides in the context of the crisis, it also stresses that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be linked to the accession negotiations process. turkey urgently needs reforms in the areas of justice, the rule of law and human rights. we must call on turkey to honour its commitments to european integration in line with european values, to guarantee fundamental rights, to guarantee the cultural, social and political rights of the kurdish national community and, facing up to its own past, to officially recognise and justify the armenian genocide. in the light of these arguments, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a strategic partner of the union because of its economic and strategic location and its important role in the region, underlines the report on turkey, which was voted on today and deals with the country's progress in the european accession negotiations launched in 2005. the document also examines the commitment of the turkish authorities to reforms and their implementation in the areas of the judiciary, the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. the document specifically highlights the importance of the country in dealing with the refugee and migration crisis. while supporting renewed political cooperation between the two sides in the context of the crisis, it also stresses that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be linked to the accession negotiations process. turkey urgently needs reforms in the areas of justice, the rule of law and human rights. we must call on turkey to honour its commitments to european integration in line with european values, to guarantee fundamental rights, to guarantee the cultural, social and political rights of the kurdish national community and, facing up to its own past, to officially recognise and justify the armenian genocide. in the light of these arguments, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission presented its 2015 report on turkey. the report of the committee on foreign affairs on the presentation recalls that turkey has committed itself to meeting the copenhagen criteria, implementing adequate and effective reforms and gradually approximating to the union acquis. in contrast, the pace of reforms has slowed in terms of political criteria and there have been significant setbacks in the areas of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. turkey still has the highest number of imprisoned journalists in the world, and according to the freedom house ranking of press and media freedom, turkey is still considered a country with no press freedom and only partial internet freedom. the report covers the main aspects of the accession negotiations: the rule of law, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the kurdish peace process and the situation in the south-east of turkey, eu-turkey cooperation in the refugee and migration crisis and progress in the negotiations on the reunification of cyprus. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, agreeing with its critical assessment, which is drafted with strict regard to european democratic values. it points out, inter alia, that the democratic rule of law in the sense of the copenhagen criteria has deteriorated during the more than a decade of accession negotiations between the eu and turkey. the rights of national and other minorities, women, the political opposition, and, more recently, the media critical of the government, and even the personal security of their representatives, are still severely violated. i accept, however, that this annual report, after a long absence, supports the opening of chapters 23 and 24 of the accession negotiations, since it is in these chapters that many shortcomings in the internal legal order and the judiciary can be identified. the report also gives a fair view of the important role turkey is playing in dealing with the current refugee crisis and commends the cooperation with the eu in this area. at the same time, i agree with the conclusion that the union should not, for this reason, turn a blind eye to turkey's shortcomings in democracy, the rule of law and integration preparedness.
in writing. ‒ on 3 october 2005, accession negotiations with turkey were opened, and the opening of these negotiations marks the beginning of a process based on a long and open outcome, fair and rigorous conditionality and a commitment to reform. the pace of reforms has slowed down in terms of political criteria and there have been significant setbacks in the areas of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ in my view, albania has made continuous progress in recent years towards a successful start of accession negotiations. it is also noteworthy that the country has increased its efforts to combat organised crime, drug trafficking and human trafficking. the recognition by governments that civil society is essential to the establishment and development of a democratic society can have a positive impact on the management of political and social processes. we expect further action in the areas of property rights and criminal proceedings, as well as active action in the fight against islamic extremism. it is also important to emphasise that the country should increase its role in facilitating regional cooperation processes. on these grounds, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ albania has taken continuous steps to open accession negotiations. it is also noteworthy that the country has increased its efforts to combat organised crime, drug trafficking and human trafficking. the recognition by governments that civil society is essential to the establishment and development of a democratic society can have a positive impact on the management of political and social processes. we expect further action in the areas of property rights and criminal proceedings, as well as active action in the fight against islamic extremism. it is also important to emphasise that the country should increase its role in facilitating regional cooperation processes.
in writing. ‒ i have given my assent to the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the 2015 albanian country report. albania has made steady progress towards accession to the union. i welcome the country's efforts to reform key areas. these include reform of public administration and efforts to combat discrimination against vulnerable groups. however, they must implement a substantial reform of the judiciary. we must support albania by all means possible, because the goal is to achieve eu accession, which will lead to further stability in the western balkans. first of all, in order to implement the reforms, we call on all political parties to make further efforts to initiate a more constructive and genuine political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the presentation of the 2015 report on albania by the committee on foreign affairs states that although albania has made steady progress towards eu accession, there are still problems that need to be resolved quickly and effectively in order to make further progress. it urges, in particular, an increase in reform efforts in the areas of the rule of law, judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, public administration reform and fundamental rights. notes that there is a political consensus on the eu accession process and that it enjoys broad public support in albania; welcomes the commitment to comprehensive and in-depth judicial reform and the adoption of the public administration and public finance reform strategy. it remains concerned about widespread corruption, condemns the ill-treatment of suspects in the police, the overcrowding of prisons, and the inadequate medical care and poor conditions in detention facilities, and warns that institutional mechanisms for protecting children's rights remain inadequate. stresses the importance of professional, independent and versatile public service broadcasting and privately owned media; is concerned about the widespread self-censorship among journalists, who are sometimes physically prevented from reporting on certain events; i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report on albania, with particular appreciation for the fact that albania, perhaps the furthest-reaching country in the western balkans' accession process to the european union, is now one of our most promising partners as a candidate country. in my opinion, the work of the european parliament's rapporteur reflects precisely the responsible approach which, by confirming albania's achievements, by correctly identifying the demanding integration tasks facing the country, is able to motivate the partner country. we need this today to give the eu a new impetus and renew its credibility. among the areas highlighted in the report, strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption and organised crime are priorities for virtually all western balkan countries in meeting the accession conditions, but i see an opportunity to use the encouraging progress of albania as a positive example for the other countries.
in writing. ‒ albania has made steady progress towards eu accession. however, the report notes that problems remain which need to be resolved quickly and effectively in order to make further progress on the path towards eu accession. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is a matter of fact that the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina are at the heart of the reforms that have been initiated. continued reforms are essential to keep the country on the path towards the eu. the full integration of coordination mechanisms has also begun. the adoption of an anti-corruption action plan is also underway, clearly demonstrating the country's determination to tackle this phenomenon. there's been active action on the illegal arms trade, something the organization's been doing in the area of fighting crime. in this light, i am convinced that, despite all the difficulties, the eu institutions must continue to assist bosnia and herzegovina in the process of democratisation and the development of the rule of law, which is important not only for eu integration but also for the citizens of the country and for the stability of the balkan region. it is important that the country's leadership consistently acts against the spread of extremist islamic views. on this basis, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ it is a fact that the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina are at the heart of the reforms that have been initiated. continued reforms are essential to keep the country on the path towards the eu. the full integration of coordination mechanisms has also begun. the adoption of the anti-corruption action plan for 2015-2019 is also underway, clearly demonstrating the country's determination to tackle this phenomenon. there have also been active steps in the area of illegal arms trafficking, something the organization has done in the fight against crime. at the same time, it is also necessary to implement the sejdić-finci and zornić judgments and to develop a more balanced relationship between the peoples of the country and the federal units. in this light, i am convinced that, despite all the difficulties, the eu institutions must continue to assist bosnia and herzegovina in the process of democratisation and the development of the rule of law, which is important not only for eu integration but also for the citizens of the country.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the 2015 country report on bosnia and herzegovina. the stability of the western balkans is a strategic issue and bosnia is key to that. i welcome the eu's new approach to further progress towards eu accession for the country. the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement in 2015 will be the tipping point. the eu must be committed to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina, but this is a bilateral process and the bosnian public administrations must also be willing to do so. continue constitutional and political reforms that transform bosnia and herzegovina into an effective and fully functioning state in line with european standards.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented its 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. the draft resolution of the committee on foreign affairs on this subject welcomes the submission of the application for eu membership by bosnia and herzegovina on 15 february 2016. urges the continuation of constitutional and political reforms that will transform bosnia and herzegovina into an effective, inclusive and fully functioning state, and that will ensure equality and democratic representation for all state-forming peoples and citizens, irrespective of their ethnic or religious background; calls on political and religious leaders to refrain from polarizing, nationalist and separatist rhetoric in society and to continue political dialogue and activities aimed at building mutual respect, consensus and cooperation between legitimate political representatives and protecting the diversity of society; expresses its concern at the independent foreign and security policy of the republika srpska, which is capable of undermining state-level politics, and condemns the law on public order still in force in the republika srpska, which undermines the fundamental democratic rights related to freedom of assembly, freedom of association and freedom of the media. i supported the foreign affairs committee's report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, also appreciating that it contains good news for the revival of the eu enlargement policy, including the dynamisation of the western balkans accession process: the commission has for the first time in a long time given a fundamentally positive assessment of the processes of democratisation and reform in bosnia and herzegovina, and as a result the country submitted a formal application for eu accession two months ago. in assessing the report and developments in bosnia and herzegovina, i also took into account the fact that it is also in the union's interest to promote the integration capacity of our western balkan partner, which is in a situation that is the most complicated for political and historical reasons, to accelerate the accession process and to catch up with the other countries in the region. the report reflects the traditionally supportive and constructive approach of the ep. i hope that the european parliament's resolution will also be able to draw the attention of the commission's officials to the fact that the handling of the accession dossier for bosnia and the expected success of the preparations will be an important test for regaining the credibility of the eu's enlargement policy.
in writing. ‒ the eu remains committed to the european perspective, territorial integrity, sovereignty and unity of bosnia and herzegovina. the eu has initiated a new approach with regard to bosnia and herzegovina in order to ensure that the country makes further progress towards eu accession and meets the remaining socio-economic and rule of law challenges, thereby enabling the country to prepare for future eu membership. the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) entered into force on 1 june 2015, following this approach. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ the report blames high public spending on the fight against poverty, noting that only a few member states have improved poverty-related indicators. hungary is among these countries thanks to the success of its reduction of recession, and it is therefore welcome that the report encourages the exchange of good practices between eu countries. the report also calls on the european commission to provide member states with greater flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can allocate eu funds more effectively to reducing energy poverty or improving housing conditions. the report also calls on member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency, such as insulation, solar energy and energy-efficient equipment. i voted in line with the people's party, in favour of the report being adopted.
in writing. ‒ the report blames high public spending on the fight against poverty, noting that only a few member states have improved poverty-related indicators. hungary is among these countries thanks to the success of its reduction of recession, and it is therefore welcome that the report encourages the exchange of good practices between eu countries. the report also calls on the european commission to provide member states with a high degree of flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can allocate eu funds more effectively to reducing energy poverty or improving housing conditions. the report also calls on member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency, such as insulation, solar energy and energy-efficient equipment. in my country, hungary, the home warm programme continues this year, with which the ministry of national development provides non-refundable support for the energy modernization and renovation of family homes, starting from july 1, 2016 with a budget of huf 5 billion. the european parliament has rejected the eu definition of energy poverty because there is no need for a new, non-objective poverty indicator. it is important that the commission works on the basis of objective data, for which it would be essential to take account of the actual financial situation instead of the current surveys based in part on self-declarations. i voted in line with the people's party, supporting the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report blames high public spending on the fight against poverty, noting that only a few member states have improved poverty-related indicators. hungary is among these countries thanks to the success of its reduction of recession, and it is therefore welcome that the report encourages the exchange of good practices between eu countries. the report also calls on the european commission to provide member states with a high degree of flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can allocate eu funds more effectively to reducing energy poverty or improving housing conditions. the report also calls on member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency, such as insulation, solar energy and energy-efficient equipment. in hungary, the home warm programme continues this year, with which the ministry of national development provides non-refundable support for energy upgrading and renovation of family homes starting from july 1, 2016 with a budget of huf 5 billion. the eu definition of energy poverty (article 34) was rejected by the people's party because no new, non-objective poverty indicator is needed. it is important that the commission works on the basis of objective data, for which it would be essential to take into account the actual financial situation (e.g. housing, debt) instead of the current surveys based on partial self-declaration. i voted in line with the people's party, supporting the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report blames high public spending on the fight against poverty, noting that only a few member states have improved poverty-related indicators. hungary is among these countries thanks to the success of its reduction of recession, and it is therefore welcome that the report encourages the exchange of good practices between eu countries. the report also calls on the european commission to provide member states with a high degree of flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can allocate eu funds more effectively to reducing energy poverty or improving housing conditions. the report also calls on member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency, such as insulation, solar energy and energy-efficient equipment. in hungary, the home warm programme continues this year, with which the ministry of national development provides non-refundable support for energy upgrading and renovation of family homes starting from july 1, 2016 with a budget of huf 5 billion. the eu definition of energy poverty (article 34) was rejected by the people's party because no new, non-objective poverty indicator is needed. it is important that the commission works on the basis of objective data, for which it would be essential to take into account the actual financial situation (e.g. housing, debt) instead of the current surveys based on partial self-declaration. i voted in line with the people's party, supporting the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report blames high public spending on the fight against poverty, noting that only a few member states have improved poverty-related indicators. hungary is among these countries thanks to the success of its reduction of recession, and it is therefore welcome that the report encourages the exchange of good practices between eu countries. the report also calls on the european commission to provide member states with a high degree of flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can allocate eu funds more effectively to reducing energy poverty or improving housing conditions. the report also calls on member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency, such as insulation, solar energy and energy-efficient equipment. in hungary, the home warm programme continues this year, with which the ministry of national development provides non-refundable support for energy upgrading and renovation of family homes starting from july 1, 2016 with a budget of huf 5 billion. the eu definition of energy poverty (article 34) was rejected by the people's party because no new, non-objective poverty indicator is needed. it is important that the commission works on the basis of objective data, for which it would be essential to take into account the actual financial situation (e.g. housing, debt) instead of the current surveys based on partial self-declaration. i voted in line with the people's party, supporting the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report blames high public spending on the fight against poverty, noting that only a few member states have improved poverty-related indicators. hungary is among these countries thanks to the success of its reduction of recession, and it is therefore welcome that the report encourages the exchange of good practices between eu countries. the report also calls on the european commission to provide member states with greater flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that eu funds can be better targeted to reduce energy poverty or improve housing conditions. the report also calls on member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency, such as insulation, solar energy and energy-efficient equipment. the eu definition of energy poverty (article 34) was rejected by the people's party because no new, non-objective poverty indicator is needed. it is important that the commission works on the basis of objective data, for which it would be essential to take into account the actual financial situation (e.g. housing, debt) instead of the current surveys based on partial self-declaration. i supported the report in its entirety, in line with the people's party.
in writing. ‒ the report blames high public spending on the fight against poverty, noting that only a few member states have improved poverty-related indicators. hungary is among these countries thanks to the success of its reduction of recession, and it is therefore welcome that the report encourages the exchange of good practices between eu countries. the report also calls on the european commission to provide member states with greater flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can allocate eu funds more effectively to reducing energy poverty or improving housing conditions. the report also calls on member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency, such as insulation, solar energy and energy-efficient equipment. in hungary, the home warm programme continues this year, with which the ministry of national development provides non-refundable support for energy upgrading and renovation of family homes starting from july 1, 2016 with a budget of huf 5 billion. the eu definition of energy poverty (article 34) was rejected by the people's party because no new, non-objective poverty indicator is needed. it is important that the commission works on the basis of objective data, for which it would be essential to take into account the actual financial situation (e.g. housing, debt) instead of the current surveys based on partial self-declaration. i voted in line with the people's party, supporting the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report blames high public spending on the fight against poverty, noting that only a few member states have improved poverty-related indicators. hungary is among these countries thanks to the success of its reduction of recession, and it is therefore welcome that the report encourages the exchange of good practices between eu countries. the report also calls on the european commission to provide member states with greater flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can allocate eu funds more effectively to reducing energy poverty or improving housing conditions. the report also calls on member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency, such as insulation, solar energy and energy-efficient equipment. in my country, hungary, the home heating program continues this year, with which the ministry of national development provides non-refundable support for the energy modernization and renovation of family homes starting from july 1, 2016 with a budget of huf 5 billion. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition and affects trade between member states. it is important that the commission works on the basis of objective data, for which it would be essential to take into account the actual financial situation (e.g. housing, debt) instead of the current surveys based on partial self-declaration. i voted in line with the people's party, i supported the report in its entirety.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on employment and social affairs links social policy and energy policy. the elimination or at least the reduction of energy poverty could be an important element in achieving the europe 2020 poverty reduction targets, as the union has significant untapped potential to reduce the main household costs of poor households through existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. energy efficiency, emissions and renewable energy targets can also contribute to the anti-poverty objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in fact, an important tool in the fight against poverty, in particular extreme poverty, is the effective reduction of household costs by making the different funds more targeted towards the most vulnerable households and by removing obstacles to the efficient use of resources. the europe 2020 strategy aims to achieve 20% of energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020, 20% more energy efficiency and 20% less greenhouse gas emissions (compared to 1990). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy efficiency and climate change policy, including the implementation of the energy union strategy. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, the private sector provides about 90% of jobs and is therefore crucial in the fight against poverty. it also has a key role to play in sustainable agricultural production, especially in view of the need to feed 9 billion people by 2050. as the potential of the private sector drives sustainable development in developing countries, the role of private sector actors is also becoming increasingly important in international development. given that, according to a recent commission assessment, eu support has made a significant contribution to the strengthening of the private sector in developing countries over the period 2004-2010, the commission proposes to build on these successes by adopting a strategic framework that can further strengthen the role of the private sector in contributing to the long-term strategy for sustainable development in these partner countries. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, the private sector provides about 90% of jobs and is therefore crucial in the fight against poverty. it also has a key role to play in sustainable agricultural production, especially in view of the need to feed 9 billion people by 2050. as the potential of the private sector drives sustainable development in developing countries, the role of private sector actors is also becoming increasingly important in international development. given that, according to a recent commission assessment, eu support has made a significant contribution to the strengthening of the private sector in developing countries over the period 2004-2010, the commission proposes to build on these successes by adopting a strategic framework that can further strengthen the role of the private sector in contributing to the long-term strategy for sustainable development in these partner countries.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, the private sector provides about 90% of jobs and is therefore crucial in the fight against poverty. it also has a key role to play in sustainable agricultural production, especially in view of the need to feed 9 billion people by 2050. as the potential of the private sector drives sustainable development in developing countries, the role of private sector actors is also becoming increasingly important in international development. given that, according to a recent commission assessment, eu support has made a significant contribution to the strengthening of the private sector in developing countries over the period 2004-2010, the commission proposes to build on these successes by adopting a strategic framework that can further strengthen the role of the private sector in contributing to the long-term strategy for sustainable development in these partner countries.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, the private sector provides about 90% of jobs and is therefore crucial in the fight against poverty. it also has a key role to play in sustainable agricultural production, especially in view of the need to feed 9 billion people by 2050. as the potential of the private sector drives sustainable development in developing countries, the role of private sector actors is also becoming increasingly important in international development. given that, according to a recent commission assessment, eu support has made a significant contribution to the strengthening of the private sector in developing countries over the period 2004-2010, the commission proposes to build on these successes by adopting a strategic framework that can further strengthen the role of the private sector in contributing to the long-term strategy for sustainable development in these partner countries.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, the private sector provides about 90% of jobs and is therefore crucial in the fight against poverty. it also has a key role to play in sustainable agricultural production, especially in view of the need to feed 9 billion people by 2050. as the potential of the private sector drives sustainable development in developing countries, the role of private sector actors is also becoming increasingly important in international development. given that, according to a recent commission assessment, eu support has made a significant contribution to the strengthening of the private sector in developing countries over the period 2004-2010, the commission proposes to build on these successes by adopting a strategic framework that can further strengthen the role of the private sector in contributing to the long-term strategy for sustainable development in these partner countries.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, the private sector provides about 90% of jobs and is therefore crucial in the fight against poverty. it also has a key role to play in sustainable agricultural production, especially in view of the need to feed 9 billion people by 2050. as the potential of the private sector drives sustainable development in developing countries, the role of private sector actors is also becoming increasingly important in international development. given that, according to a recent commission assessment, eu support has made a significant contribution to the strengthening of the private sector in developing countries over the period 2004-2010, the commission proposes to build on these successes by adopting a strategic framework that can further strengthen the role of the private sector in contributing to the long-term strategy for sustainable development in these partner countries.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, the private sector provides about 90% of jobs and is therefore crucial in the fight against poverty. it also has a key role to play in sustainable agricultural production, especially in view of the need to feed 9 billion people by 2050. as the potential of the private sector drives sustainable development in developing countries, the role of private sector actors is also becoming increasingly important in international development. given that, according to a recent commission assessment, eu support has made a significant contribution to the strengthening of the private sector in developing countries over the period 2004-2010, the commission proposes to build on these successes by adopting a strategic framework that can further strengthen the role of the private sector in contributing to the long-term strategy for sustainable development in these partner countries.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, the private sector provides about 90% of jobs and is therefore crucial in the fight against poverty. it also has a key role to play in sustainable agricultural production, especially in view of the need to feed 9 billion people by 2050. as the potential of the private sector drives sustainable development in developing countries, the role of private sector actors is also becoming increasingly important in international development. given that, according to a recent commission assessment, eu support has made a significant contribution to the strengthening of the private sector in developing countries over the period 2004-2010, the commission proposes to build on these successes by adopting a strategic framework that can further strengthen the role of the private sector in contributing to the long-term strategy for sustainable development in these partner countries.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, the private sector provides about 90% of jobs and is therefore crucial in the fight against poverty. it also has a key role to play in sustainable agricultural production, especially in view of the need to feed 9 billion people by 2050. as the potential of the private sector drives sustainable development in developing countries, the role of private sector actors is also becoming increasingly important in international development. given that, according to a recent commission assessment, eu support has made a significant contribution to the strengthening of the private sector in developing countries over the period 2004-2010, the commission proposes to build on these successes by adopting a strategic framework that can further strengthen the role of the private sector in contributing to the long-term strategy for sustainable development in these partner countries.
i've been sitting here for six and a half years, and i feel like i've learned to think in a european way. now, don't get me wrong, it's not that i've been intellectually elevated by the experience, but i've started to recognize the cunning, manipulative way of thinking that sells its mostly bizarre ideas to the public, right, through the tabloid press -- respect for the exception in the press. what do i mean? now, for example, the commissioner has come here to make dramatic announcements about the costs of closing internal borders to mass migration to europe and to european taxpayers, etc., etc. the logical solution would be to stop this mass migration. of course, that's not what's happening. i can already see that in the next session - so this is the preparation for it - they announce that the only solution is legal migration. let everyone in, everyone without restriction, legally. it would be all right, dear colleagues, if those countries that want to take in migrants and these perverse, bizarre ideas that they are preparing now, with this so-called debate, would not be forced to, for example, hungary. thank you very much. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
blue-card answer.– i am extremely grateful for the question because this means that the translation was probably improper, so i am telling it now in english. i fully agree that there are enormous costs of closing the internal borders, among others to my hungarian citizens as well. the answer should be to stop mass migration, but this is not what you are going to do. today’s session was a preparation to the next session or the one after the next, in which you will declare that all migration should be legal and we hungarians do not want it so do not try to force it on us. this is all i wanted to say.
mr. president, i have to go. in addition to the economic crisis that has been going on for several years and the ever-increasing competition, freight transport companies have had to face a new problem: the consequences of migration. the increased frequency and the tightening of border controls have reduced their ability to deliver goods to customers in the same time, while at the same time their transport costs have increased due to the longer journey times. not to mention the unpredictability, the time-sensitive cargo, the wasteful passengers and the environmental impact. for all these reasons, it is very important to stress that the four freedoms and the single internal market cannot be allowed to be jeopardised, and that the proper functioning of the schengen system is essential for this. to do so, we must follow the rules that he has set. nor can we ignore the fact that the european road network is the workplace of truck drivers, with all its challenges and dangers. truck drivers are at risk, facing much greater challenges than before. in their case, a safe working environment has acquired a new, heightened meaning and importance. it is therefore important to ensure a safe working environment for professional drivers and the protection of drivers in the transport network, in accordance with directive 89/391 on the protection of the health of workers. tourism should not be forgotten either, as it is a sector that is highly sensitive to terrorist attacks and the threat thereof. when we know that tourism accounts for almost 10% of european gdp, it is clear that the whole economy can be very seriously affected by losses in tourism. i believe that a support mechanism should be set up to enable transport providers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and tourism to make up for the losses. i ask the commission to consider this proposal.
we now have all the technology that allows us to drive our vehicles without a driver. alongside the obvious positives, there are also a host of challenges and potential drawbacks, such as the much-mentioned issue of accountability, the drastic reduction in management jobs, the issue of privacy, etc. we must pay attention to safety, which must be a priority, especially for those most at risk on the roads: pedestrians and cyclists. the road to self-driving vehicles includes communication between vehicles. this could already be useful for sharing routing information. i believe that this technology should be extended to all vehicles, particularly trucks. this could save time and fuel, improve the working conditions of hauliers and bring us closer to achieving our environmental objectives. the key challenge is to create the legal framework that will enable the sustainable use of this new technology and at the same time facilitate further development. the challenge of reconciling different interests and objectives is a major one, but the unstoppable pace of technological development makes it urgent to establish a regulatory framework as soon as possible. in this process, the commission can count on the assistance of the european parliament.
madam president, the european investment bank provided 80 billion euros in aid in 2014. this is only 3% of the eu's total investment of 2700 billion, so it is not the eib that is to blame for the failure of the eu's economic policies. the bank's lending to the private sector has been particularly strong in the last few years, with a strong growth in the number of loans to smes. since 2008, it has been clear that the process of convergence between the countries of the centre and those of the periphery, and in particular between the new member states, has stopped and the gaps have started to widen. in future, the bank's lending activities should be directed more strongly towards the less-developed regions. this requires a strategic programme to identify the priorities that would best help to catch up the lagging regions and then to develop the investment bank's support policy in line with this strategy.
in writing.– the eib is one of the strongest players in the eu when talking about investments in big-scale projects, providing direct funds and guarantees to governments and private and public enterprises. but a state of play where the eib hides who the ultimate beneficiaries or the beneficial owners are, where the eib continues to fund projects which are under investigation by olaf or national authorities for fraud or corruption cannot be further tolerated. we demand that the eib finally ends those practices. the eib must have a policy of zero tolerance for fraud, corruption and collusion and commit to strong integrity and ethical rules. the eib should implement the highest transparency in their operations and focus on investments in environmentally-friendly and sustainable projects. here we have a lot of room for improvement, as only 1% of the funds were spent for the renewable energy capacity development for the 13 new member states in 2014. if we expect them to catch up and change their old-fashioned energy policies, then we clearly need to incentivise. last but not least we have to prevent transactions to enterprises registered in offshore financial centres or tax havens which resort to aggressive tax planning.
in writing. as the eu's bank, the eib's main task is to contribute to the development of the common market, deepen european integration, create jobs and thus increase the eu's competitiveness by supporting the right projects. the 2014 report shows a number of positive results in terms of financing for smes, supporting climate action or investing in education, skills development and youth employment. these results are certainly encouraging. however, despite the eib's efforts, social and economic inequalities in the eu have not diminished, but have become more severe. this is due to an unfair global tax system where smes and the wage earners bear the brunt of the tax burden, while governments introduce new austerity measures and big corporations get richer. in such circumstances, the struggle to promote cohesion and solidarity between member states, to improve the quality of life or to protect the environment seems to be a windfall. the eib should strengthen its due diligence activities related to its operations without delay in order to avoid cooperation with actors registered in offshore financial centres or tax havens and engaged in aggressive tax planning practices. this step is essential for the eib. however, in order to clearly perceive the added value of the bank's projects, harmful tax practices and offshore loopholes need to be eliminated once and for all.
madam president, i would like to talk about two discharges as shadow rapporteur, first about the european food safety authority (efsa). the glyphosate scandal raises many procedural anomalies in the field of transparency and conflicts of interest in efsa. i believe that we should stand firm and should not grant discharge to efsa until conflicts of interest of experts are resolved properly. second, regarding the discharge of the parliament, the ep is pointing the finger in different scandals – luxleaks, dieselgate and now the panama papers – trying to explain what happened and who is responsible on one side. on the other hand, meps are not truly transparent when it comes to their own expenditure, including the general expenditure allowances, which are not transparent and not accountable. we have to be completely transparent and thus earn the credibility of voters, and not only point at other institutions but also do the same ourselves.
madam president, i'd like to say a few words about the agency discharge process. first of all, i'd like to thank the reporter and the other shadow reporters for their excellent cooperation. the current discharge procedure for agencies is also special because, for the first time in a long time, the committee on budgetary control proposes to grant discharge to all agencies. this year, all agencies received a letter of confidence from the european court of auditors and the final accounts process clarified the remaining issues with the agencies. the financial situation and the regularity of the agencies have improved steadily over the past years. the european court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the financial year 2014 compared to previous years, with no objections. i think that the 'common approach' approach, the unification of the agencies' operations, has been effective and has already resulted in a much more orderly and transparent agency structure. at the same time, it cannot be ignored that the court has used the 'emphasis of matter' approach in some agencies. these minor objections were addressed by the rapporteur in the exemption reports and the agencies promised to remedy these problems. in the coming years, we will need to focus on further strengthening the transparency and efficiency of the agencies and assisting the agencies concerned where further action is needed. i support the people's party granting immunity to all agencies.
i'll close this discussion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
the following point is inserted after the question for oral answer by elena valenciano and linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development, to the council: attacks on hospitals and schools violation of international humanitarian law (o-000063/2016 - b8-0361/2016) (2016/2662(rsp)).
thank you very much for the statement that you made to this question that requires an oral answer. the group leaders will now speak.
i'll close this discussion. i have received six motions for resolutions to wind up the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 28 april 2016. the following shall be added to the list of the member states:
the following is the agenda for the debate on the report drawn up by laura ferrara on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs: public access to documents in the 2014-2015 period (2015/2287(ini)) - (a8-0141/2016).
in writing.– i am concerned by the large number of petitions parliament has received on child-related cases. i therefore call on member states to increase and improve cooperation between their judiciaries in cases involving child proceedings. the commission and member states must provide for specialised training and education for social workers and law enforcement professionals who deal with cross-border cases involving children. i strongly recommend the setting up of a single european helpline for cases of child abduction or abuse, and i call on the council to conclude the relevant cooperation agreements on establishing child abduction alert systems with cross-border implications. last but not least, i emphasise the importance of offering children the best possible opportunities to maintain links with their cultural background and to learn and use their mother tongue. as a member of the epp, i believe that we must, by every means, guarantee the child’s right to family life and that we must give priority to the best interests of the child in all decisions related to childcare issues at all levels.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the citizens of serbia, who, during recent elections, made it perfectly clear to everybody that they want a european future for their country. i would also like to congratulate the serbian progressive party for their extraordinary election results, which will allow them to carry on with the reforms for the benefit of serbia’s european integration and for the benefit of its citizens. thirdly, as a hungarian, i want to congratulate the alliance of vojvodina hungarians, the epp’s only associated member party from serbia, for the election results, which will help the hungarian minority in serbia to maintain strong political representation at all levels. during recent months the serbian government delivered strong results, leading to the opening of the first chapters of the accession negotiations. you could also witness great commitment in handling the migration crisis and fostering regional cooperation. now it is time for the european institutions to deliver. therefore, i would like to call on the commission and the council presidency to do their utmost in order to clear all remaining obstacles hindering the opening of new chapters, especially chapter 23.
mr. president, since last november, the calvary of the large family of marius bodnariu, a romanian living in norway, has been making waves in the romanian and international public opinion. using the inquisitorial means, the norwegian child protection service, barnevernet, declared the couple, who were raising their five children in a religious and moral sense, unfit to be parents, and forcibly removed them from them and placed them in the care of foster parents. it is quite obvious that due to the misconception of child protection, the norwegian guardianship authority has abused its power, grossly violated parental rights and the sanctity of private life. he brutally tore apart a family that believes that children are a blessing from god. in view of other similar cases, the european parliament should take action against the family-destroying and anti-christian excesses in norway. and to intervene in a concrete way to bring about the complete reunification of the bodnariu family.
madam president, we hear the debate about how the agreement between the european union and turkey is working, with fewer refugees coming to the european union. slowly and gradually, however, the process of relocation has begun, which means that european asylum policy seems to be beginning to bear fruit, despite all the difficulties. but there is another side to the story, which has not been mentioned much, although mr timmermans has just mentioned it. namely, what will happen to the people living in refugee camps in turkey? what are their perspectives? what kind of life awaits them there? no one knows how long they're supposed to be there. we have a responsibility to ensure that these people have a future, that they can study, that they can work. the european union must not only spend money to keep refugees away, but also to create conditions in the camps where these people can prepare for the future and preserve their human dignity. and there's something else we have to face. while we are doing everything we can to keep refugees out of europe, we are doing nothing, nothing at all, against those member states that refuse to take responsibility, that do not participate in the common european policy. we must say that this is the weakness that encourages these countries and the european far right. it should be made clear that those who do not take part in the common european policy should not expect support from the union in other areas.
in writing. since the eu-turkey cooperation agreement in march, the number of arrivals to the greek islands has fallen by more than two thirds, according to the eu border agency frontex. from these, we can confidently conclude that the common european asylum policy has started to work. in contrast, individual member state solutions, fencing and border closures have only increased human suffering, not provided a solution. the agreement with turkey is designed to ensure that refugees no longer risk their lives on the dangerous sea route and fall into the clutches of human traffickers. the turkish deal has created the possibility for refugees from the war to arrive in the eu in a legal, safe and regulated way. solidarity between eu member states is needed for the eu-turkey agreement to continue to work. only together can we tackle the biggest crisis in the eu's history, and every member state must do its part. let's be clear: the refugee crisis will not go away on its own, and we cannot delay further in comprehensively reforming the eu's asylum system. the eu's common border guard, the relief of frontline member states, eu solidarity, full harmonisation of asylum procedures and an eu green card similar to the us green card system serve this purpose. the eu's refugee policy can only be transformed in accordance with the principles of human dignity, humanity and solidarity. european values are not negotiable.
mr. chairman, i'd like to congratulate the three reporters and the shadow reporters on their achievements. i am glad that the technical dossier for the fourth railway package has finally been put on the agenda and that our vote will bring to a close this process which has been awaited for a very long time, first and foremost by industry but also by the public and passengers. i also welcome the fact that we managed to manage together both the technical and political aspects of the railway package, that the three technical acts did not ultimately become the victims of political dossiers and battles. as rapporteur for the people's party on the governance directive, i am pleased that we were able to reach agreement on the three political acts at the trilogue last week, which the member states have now also commented on. there is nothing to stop us from taking another step towards the single european railway area, and i ask my colleagues to support me in this, and i hope that we can vote on the political package as soon as possible.
mr president, my intervention is about voting on paragraph 49, which is about the ban on side jobs for meps. this clearly was part of the original text and the request for a separate vote arrived far beyond the deadline for those requests. we believe that it is completely unacceptable to request a separate vote on such an important issue beyond the deadline, even if it is approved by president schulz, so we first ask for not voting on paragraph 49 on the ban on side jobs for meps. but if we regard it as an exceptional procedure, and we are to vote on it, then we request a roll-call vote for that separate vote.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with georgia was the first comprehensive aviation agreement concluded by the union with a country in the caucasus region as an aviation partner. the agreement was created as part of the external aviation policy of the union developed by the commission. the act of accession of croatia provides for the accession of croatia, by means of an attached protocol, to agreements concluded or signed by the member states and the european union with one or more third countries prior to its accession. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the agreement between the european union and georgia on the establishment of a common airspace to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the agreement between the european union and georgia on the establishment of a common airspace to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the agreement between the european union and georgia on the establishment of a common airspace to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the agreement between the european union and georgia on the establishment of a common airspace to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the agreement between the european union and georgia on the establishment of a common airspace to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, on the establishment of a common airspace was signed on 2 december 2010. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia acceded to the eu and became its 28th member state. the act of accession provides that croatia is to accede, by means of an attached protocol, to agreements previously concluded or signed by the member states and the european union with one or more third countries. the protocol to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union was signed on 26 november 2014. the council shall require the consent of the european parliament for the conclusion of the protocol. in its report, the committee on transport and tourism recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to amend the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, on the establishment of a common airspace to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. in accordance with the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia accedes, by means of the attached protocol, to the agreements concluded or signed by the member states and the european union with one or more third countries prior to its accession. this requires acceptance of the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ the agreement establishing a common aviation area between the european union and its member states, and georgia was established by a council decision authorising the opening of negotiations, adopted in june 2009. the agreement was signed on 2 december 2010. the agreement with georgia was the first comprehensive aviation agreement concluded by the union with a key aviation partner in the caucasus region. the agreement is part of the external aviation policy of the union developed by the commission. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and the government of the state of israel to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and the government of the state of israel to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and the government of the state of israel to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and the government of the state of israel to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical dossier extending the scope of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and the government of the state of israel to the republic of croatia, taking into account its accession to the european union. since the text and substance of the agreement will not change, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, was signed on 10 june 2013. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia acceded to the eu and became its 28th member state. the act of accession provides that croatia is to accede, by means of an attached protocol, to agreements previously concluded or signed by the member states and the european union with one or more third countries. the protocol to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union was signed on 19 february 2015. the council shall require the consent of the european parliament for the conclusion of the protocol. in its report, the committee on transport and tourism recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation that the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the eu and its member states and the government of the state of israel be amended to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. by adopting this recommendation, we are facilitating the process of the accession of the republic of croatia, which acceded to the eu on 1 july 2013, to the agreements concluded or signed by the member states and the european union with one or more third countries prior to its accession, pursuant to its act of accession.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, was established by a council decision of april 2008 authorising the opening of negotiations. the agreement was signed on 10 june 2013. the agreement with israel, a key aviation partner in the mediterranean, is an important step forward in the work towards establishing a common airspace between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. the agreement is part of the external aviation policy of the union developed by the commission. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, established under the treaty on european union, was a confirmation of an earlier commitment to mutual assistance. the treaty is of particular importance as the growth of illicit trade poses a serious threat to both public health and public security. cooperation shall contribute to the prevention and detection of infringements of national customs legislation, as well as to the prosecution and sanctioning of infringements. however, it is important to note that the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality must be given priority when discussing the present proposal. croatia shall accede to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states by virtue of its act of accession. the current proposal is only intended to determine when the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations will enter into force with respect to croatia, so i supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the commission has submitted to the council, on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union, a proposal for a decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual legal assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. the council consulted the parliament before adopting this decision. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has recommended that parliament approve the commission's proposal. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for croatia to accede to the convention on mutual legal assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. the act of accession of the republic of croatia provides for a simplified procedure for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states. by accepting this report, i have consented to this procedure.
in writing. ‒ the act of accession of the republic of croatia1 provides for a simplified procedure for croatia's accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu (formerly article k.3 teu) or article 293 ec. article 3 (4) of the act of accession provides only that croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols on the basis of that act. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the polish traffic police intend to initiate proceedings against bolesław g. piecha, a polish mep, for violating the speed limit in a populated area. on 29 october 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland sent to the european parliament a request for suspension of the member's immunity. the alleged infringement took place before bolesław g. piecha was elected as a member of the european parliament and therefore has no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament by bolesław g. piecha. the member agreed to pay the fine in his statement to the general inspectorate of traffic police, and there is therefore no serious and well-founded suspicion that the request was made with the aim of causing political damage to the member. in the light of all this, the report of the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament suspend the immunity of mr bolesław g. piecha. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the polish inspector general of traffic police, mr bolesław g. piecha, to suspend the immunity of a polish member of the european parliament; he had committed a traffic offence. since the alleged infringement took place before mr piecha was elected to the european parliament and since, according to practice, the infringement has no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament by mr piecha, i voted in favour of it, in accordance with the position of the s&d group.
in writing. ‒ family and child protection must be addressed as a top priority today. a number of petitions have been submitted to the european parliament on child protection issues, which shows the importance of the subject. one of the key issues addressed in the proposal is the establishment of cross-border mechanisms that would allow for the exchange of information between the competent authorities of different member states. this includes the establishment of specialised chambers dealing with cross-border cases. in order to improve the flow of information, it is important to provide citizens with adequate information on each procedure and to ensure access to appropriate legal assistance and interpretation, which help the parties concerned to make an informed decision that is optimal for them. these are also the reasons for supporting the proposal, keeping the issue on the agenda and implementing any legislative changes.
in writing. ‒ i would like to remind you that the large number of petitions received in child cases shows that effective implementation of the current regulation in practice is a serious problem. this may also be a sign that the legislation is not sufficiently clear and that there are serious problems with its interpretation by the national authorities. in addition to the fact that it would be desirable to close these loopholes in the next review of the legislation, i would also like to draw the attention of the commission and the member states to another factor. in particular, to provide special training and education for social workers and all other professionals dealing with cross-border cases. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted is based on a large number of petitions concerning children's rights received by parliament's committee on petitions. with free movement within the union, the number of crossborder family relationships has multiplied, and with it the need for crossborder settlement of disputes. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to promote a more coordinated exchange of information and cooperation on cross-border issues in order to protect children's rights. the resolution, based on the questions raised by the petitions, deals with the circumstances surrounding the adoption of children, concerns court decisions to be enforced under the brussels iia regulation, and addresses the issues of placement of children, contact, withdrawal of custody, and the problems caused by adoption without consent and illegal removal abroad. increased european mobility has also brought about changes in the lives of families, which require union responses where appropriate. the parliament believes that, for example, in the case of adoption, children should be placed in a situation where they can learn, use and maintain contact with their cultural background in their mother tongue. parliament called on the commission to develop a website on the subject, which would provide practical information to eu citizens on child protection and parental rights in the various member states.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted is based on a large number of petitions concerning children's rights received by parliament's committee on petitions. with free movement within the union, the number of crossborder family relationships has multiplied, and with it the need for crossborder settlement of disputes. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to promote a more coordinated exchange of information and cooperation on cross-border issues in order to protect children's rights. the resolution, based on the questions raised by the petitions, deals with the circumstances surrounding the adoption of children, concerns court decisions to be enforced under the brussels iia regulation, and addresses the issues of placement of children, contact, withdrawal of custody, and the problems caused by adoption without consent and illegal removal abroad. increased european mobility has also brought about changes in the lives of families, which require union responses where appropriate. the parliament believes that, for example, in the case of adoption, children should be placed in a situation where they can learn, use and maintain contact with their cultural background in their mother tongue. parliament called on the commission to develop a website on the subject, which would provide practical information to eu citizens on child protection and parental rights in the various member states.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted is based on a large number of petitions concerning children's rights received by parliament's committee on petitions. with free movement within the union, the number of crossborder family relationships has multiplied, and with it the need for crossborder settlement of disputes. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to promote a more coordinated exchange of information and cooperation on cross-border issues in order to protect children's rights. the resolution, based on the questions raised by the petitions, deals with the circumstances surrounding the adoption of children, concerns court decisions to be enforced under the brussels iia regulation, and addresses the issues of placement of children, contact, withdrawal of custody, and the problems caused by adoption without consent and illegal removal abroad. increased european mobility has also brought about changes in the lives of families, which require union responses where appropriate. the parliament believes that, for example, in the case of adoption, children should be placed in a situation where they can learn, use and maintain contact with their cultural background in their mother tongue. parliament called on the commission to develop a website on the subject, which would provide practical information to eu citizens on child protection and parental rights in the various member states.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted is based on a large number of petitions concerning children's rights received by parliament's committee on petitions. with free movement within the union, the number of crossborder family relationships has multiplied, and with it the need for crossborder settlement of disputes. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to promote a more coordinated exchange of information and cooperation on cross-border issues in order to protect children's rights. the resolution, based on the questions raised by the petitions, deals with the circumstances surrounding the adoption of children, concerns court decisions to be enforced under the brussels iia regulation, and addresses the issues of placement of children, contact, withdrawal of custody, and the problems caused by adoption without consent and illegal removal abroad. increased european mobility has also brought about changes in the lives of families, which require union responses where appropriate. the parliament believes that, for example, in the case of adoption, children should be placed in a situation where they can learn, use and maintain contact with their cultural background in their mother tongue. parliament called on the commission to develop a website on the subject, which would provide practical information to eu citizens on child protection and parental rights in the various member states.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted is based on a large number of petitions concerning children's rights received by parliament's committee on petitions. with free movement within the union, the number of crossborder family relationships has multiplied, and with it the need for crossborder settlement of disputes. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to promote a more coordinated exchange of information and cooperation on cross-border issues in order to protect children's rights. the resolution, based on the questions raised by the petitions, deals with the circumstances surrounding the adoption of children, concerns court decisions to be enforced under the brussels iia regulation, and addresses the issues of placement of children, contact, withdrawal of custody, and the problems caused by adoption without consent and illegal removal abroad. increased european mobility has also brought about changes in the lives of families, which require union responses where appropriate. the parliament believes that, for example, in the case of adoption, children should be placed in a situation where they can learn, use and maintain contact with their cultural background in their mother tongue. parliament called on the commission to develop a website on the subject, which would provide practical information to eu citizens on child protection and parental rights in the various member states. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the committee on petitions' report points out that a large number of petitions in child cases are received, which indicates that the implementation of the so-called brussels iia regulation, i.e. council regulation (ec) no 2201/2003 of 27 november 2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility and repealing regulation (ec) no 1347/2000, presents a serious problem. it concludes in this context that the regulation is not free from legal loopholes and that it is therefore appropriate to improve its provisions, in particular with regard to transnational and cross-border mechanisms which take into account the specificities of cross-border conflicts, in the context of its forthcoming review. it covers issues of judicial cooperation within the union for the protection of children, the role of social services in child protection, child custody proceedings, placement and adoption of children, and the wrongful removal of children. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the protection of the best interests of the child. the proposal seeks to respond to petitions received by the committee on petitions in recent years from various eu member states concerning practices of child welfare authorities, the protection of children's rights, custody of children and the illegal removal of children abroad. i agree with the motion that all child protection systems should have transnational and cross-border mechanisms that take into account the specificities of cross-border conflicts. indeed, increased mobility within the european union has led to an increase in cross-border child protection cases involving the withdrawal of custody, with a significant impact on the lives of the individuals concerned. i therefore agree with the motion that it is absolutely necessary to review the brussels iia regulation. i also think it is appropriate to propose that member states set up specialised chambers within family courts dealing with cross-border cases. it is also appropriate to publish clear and easily accessible guides containing practical information for eu citizens on the institutional framework for child protection and to provide specific training for social workers to enable them to deal with cross-border cases. finally, like the motion, i believe that budgetary restrictions imposed as a result of austerity measures should in no way prevent the individual cases of family issues from being properly assessed.
in writing. ‒ the document calls on member states to introduce monitoring and evaluation systems within the national coordination framework for crossborder cases involving children. it also urged the european commission to coordinate the exchange of information between the relevant member state authorities and called on the council to report on the specific actions being implemented by the member states. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the proposal involves consultation of the economic and social committee on the european pillar of social rights. the dialogue builds on the first draft of the european pillar of social rights, an initiative announced by president juncker last september, and has been accompanied by a wide public consultation on the subject. the initiative is currently targeted at the euro area, but other member states have the possibility to join. the online consultation will run until the end of 2016. the commission's aim in the consultation process is to assess the eu's current social achievements, to identify new trends in work and social settings and to gather views and feedback on the principles set out in the preliminary draft of the pillar. the consultation will run until 31 december 2016 and a harmonised draft of the european pillar of social rights will be presented in early 2017. i voted in favour of the initiative, especially in the midst of the migrant crisis, because, as commissioner thyssen put it: 'one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century is how to adapt to the changes in the world of work. globalisation, the digital revolution and new business models have changed the way we do our daily work to an extent never seen before. other
in writing. ‒ the proposal involves consultation of the economic and social committee on the european pillar of social rights. the dialogue builds on the first draft of the european pillar of social rights, an initiative announced by president juncker last september, and has been accompanied by a wide public consultation on the subject. the initiative is currently targeted at the euro area, but other member states have the possibility to join. the online consultation will run until the end of 2016. the commission's aim in the consultation process is to assess the eu's current social achievements, to identify new trends in work and social settings and to gather views and feedback on the principles set out in the preliminary draft of the pillar. the consultation will run until 31 december 2016 and a harmonised draft of the european pillar of social rights will be presented in early 2017. i voted in favour of the initiative, especially in the midst of the migrant crisis, because, as commissioner thyssen put it: 'one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century is how to adapt to the changes in the world of work. globalisation, the digital revolution and new business models have changed the way we do our daily work to an extent never seen before. other
in writing. ‒ the proposal involves consultation of the economic and social committee on the european pillar of social rights. the dialogue builds on the first draft of the european pillar of social rights, an initiative announced by president juncker last september, and has been accompanied by a wide public consultation on the subject. the initiative is currently targeted at the euro area, but other member states have the possibility to join. the online consultation will run until the end of 2016. the commission's aim in the consultation process is to assess the eu's current social achievements, to identify new trends in work and social settings and to gather views and feedback on the principles set out in the preliminary draft of the pillar. the consultation will run until 31 december 2016 and a harmonised draft of the european pillar of social rights will be presented in early 2017. i voted in favour of the initiative, especially in the midst of the migrant crisis, because, as commissioner thyssen put it: 'one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century is how to adapt to the changes in the world of work. globalisation, the digital revolution and new business models have changed the way we do our daily work to an extent never seen before. other
in writing. ‒ the proposal involves consultation of the economic and social committee on the european pillar of social rights. the dialogue builds on the first draft of the european pillar of social rights, an initiative announced by president juncker last september, and has been accompanied by a wide public consultation on the subject. the initiative is currently targeted at the euro area, but other member states have the possibility to join. the online consultation will run until the end of 2016. the commission's aim in the consultation process is to assess the eu's current social achievements, to identify new trends in work and social settings and to gather views and feedback on the principles set out in the preliminary draft of the pillar. the consultation will run until 31 december 2016 and a harmonised draft of the european pillar of social rights will be presented in early 2017. i voted in favour of the initiative, especially in the midst of the migrant crisis, because, as commissioner thyssen put it: 'one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century is how to adapt to the changes in the world of work. globalisation, the digital revolution and new business models have changed the way we do our daily work to an extent never seen before. other
in writing. ‒ the proposal involves consultation of the economic and social committee on the european pillar of social rights. the dialogue builds on the first draft of the european pillar of social rights, an initiative announced by president juncker last september, and has been accompanied by a wide public consultation on the subject. the initiative is currently targeted at the euro area, but other member states have the possibility to join. the online consultation will run until the end of 2016. the commission's aim in the consultation process is to assess the eu's current social achievements, to identify new trends in work and social settings and to gather views and feedback on the principles set out in the preliminary draft of the pillar. the consultation will run until 31 december 2016 and a harmonised draft of the european pillar of social rights will be presented in early 2017. i voted in favour of the initiative, especially in the midst of the migrant crisis, because, as commissioner thyssen put it: 'one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century is how to adapt to the changes in the world of work. globalisation, the digital revolution and new business models have changed the way we do our daily work to an extent never seen before. other
in writing. ‒ parliament's committee on employment and social affairs has requested the opinion of the european economic and social committee on the european pillar of social rights, in accordance with article 137 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. under the cited article of the rules, parliament's plenary decides on such a request for consultation without debate. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for consultation of the european economic and social committee, the president initiates the consultation procedure and informs parliament thereof. the committees may request the opinion of the european economic and social committee on general matters or on specific questions. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the agency's current task is to gradually approximate the different technical specifications and to develop common safety methods and objectives for the european rail system as a whole. these objectives are now being further extended, making it easier to authorise the placing on the market of new rolling stock (railway wagons) and to issue single european safety certificates. this simplifies the procedure currently in force for railway companies, which provides for separate patenting and registration in each member state. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the agency's current task is to gradually approximate the different technical specifications and to develop common safety methods and objectives for the european rail system as a whole. these objectives are now being further extended, making it easier to authorise the placing on the market of new rolling stock (railway wagons) and to issue single european safety certificates. this simplifies the procedure currently in force for railway companies, which provides for separate patenting and registration in each member state. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the 4th railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the agency's current task is to gradually approximate the different technical specifications and to develop common safety methods and objectives for the european rail system as a whole. these objectives are now being further extended, making it easier to authorise the placing on the market of new rolling stock (railway wagons) and to issue single european safety certificates. this simplifies the procedure currently in force for railway companies, which provides for separate patenting and registration in each member state. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the agency's current task is to gradually approximate the different technical specifications and to develop common safety methods and objectives for the european rail system as a whole. these objectives are now being further extended, making it easier to authorise the placing on the market of new rolling stock (railway wagons) and to issue single european safety certificates. this simplifies the procedure currently in force for railway companies, which provides for separate patenting and registration in each member state. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the agency's current task is to gradually approximate the different technical specifications and to develop common safety methods and objectives for the european rail system as a whole. these objectives are now being further extended, making it easier to authorise the placing on the market of new rolling stock (railway wagons) and to issue single european safety certificates. this simplifies the procedure currently in force for railway companies, which provides for separate patenting and registration in each member state. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the agency's current task is to gradually approximate the different technical specifications and to develop common safety methods and objectives for the european rail system as a whole. these objectives are now being further extended, making it easier to authorise the placing on the market of new rolling stock (railway wagons) and to issue single european safety certificates. this simplifies the procedure currently in force for railway companies, which provides for separate patenting and registration in each member state. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. on 30 january 2013, the commission proposed to the parliament and the council the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. the lithuanian parliament, the romanian senate and the swedish parliament submitted reasoned opinions to the effect that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. following a debate in the council on 14 march 2014, the interinstitutional consultation following parliament's first reading began on 13 october 2014. following the consultation, the council published its position at first reading on 15 december 2015. in its report, the committee on transport and tourism recommends that parliament endorse the position adopted by the council at first reading and declare that the regulation has been adopted in accordance with the council's position. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is expected to increase savings for railway companies and manufacturers across the eu. it will reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures while maintaining the current high level of security. at the same time, it helps to avoid disguised forms of discrimination, especially for new companies wishing to enter the market. i did not support the efdd's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the 2004 revision of the directive focuses on removing the administrative and technical obstacles that currently exist. in the context of increased interoperability, it aims to simplify the requirements for design, construction, maintenance and the qualifications of railway staff, as well as health and safety conditions. this will improve interoperability between member states, with citizens as the main beneficiaries. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the 2004 revision of the directive focuses on removing the administrative and technical obstacles that currently exist. in the context of increased interoperability, it aims to simplify the requirements for design, construction, maintenance and the qualifications of railway staff, as well as health and safety conditions. this will improve interoperability between member states, with citizens as the main beneficiaries. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the 4th railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the 2004 revision of the directive focuses on removing the administrative and technical obstacles that currently exist. in the context of increased interoperability, it aims to simplify the requirements for design, construction, maintenance and the qualifications of railway staff, as well as health and safety conditions. this will improve interoperability between member states, with citizens as the main beneficiaries. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the 2004 revision of the directive focuses on removing the administrative and technical obstacles that currently exist. in the context of increased interoperability, it aims to simplify the requirements for design, construction, maintenance and the qualifications of railway staff, as well as health and safety conditions. this will improve interoperability between member states, with citizens as the main beneficiaries. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the 2004 revision of the directive focuses on removing the administrative and technical obstacles that currently exist. in the context of increased interoperability, it aims to simplify the requirements for design, construction, maintenance and the qualifications of railway staff, as well as health and safety conditions. this will improve interoperability between member states, with citizens as the main beneficiaries. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the 2004 revision of the directive focuses on removing the administrative and technical obstacles that currently exist. in the context of increased interoperability, it aims to simplify the requirements for design, construction, maintenance and the qualifications of railway staff, as well as health and safety conditions. this will improve interoperability between member states, with citizens as the main beneficiaries. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ on 30 january 2013, the commission proposed to the parliament and the council the adoption of a directive on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union. the council also discussed the proposal on 11 march and 6 june 2013. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. the lithuanian and swedish parliaments submitted reasoned opinions to the effect that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. on 13 october 2014, the interinstitutional consultation following parliament's first reading began. following the consultation, the council published its position at first reading on 15 december 2015. in its report, the committee on transport and tourism recommends that parliament endorse the position adopted by the council at first reading and declare that the directive has been adopted in accordance with the council's position. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the eu rail market has undergone a profound transformation over the last decade, with several rail packages being introduced (this is the fourth). the aim is to make rail more competitive and interoperable at eu level, while maintaining a high level of safety. so i voted in favour of the recommendation. i think that the joint strategies are effective and that a lot of them are also affecting the neighbouring countries. the priority should be to improve accessibility to the regions concerned and to develop rail and public services. this requires regional systems that also cross non-eu borders, and attention must be paid to neighbouring countries. for example, the different printing times still cause problems between ukraine and hungary. unfortunately, rail transport still accounts for only a modest share of transport within the european union. the rail transport share currently stagnates at 6% within the eu market and according to eurobarometer 54% of users are not satisfied with rail services. i agree that the system launched by the new directive will bring europe closer to achieving the single european railway area. it will reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures while maintaining the current high level of security. it also helps to avoid disguised forms of discrimination, especially for new companies wishing to enter the railway market.
in writing. ‒ over the past decade, the eu rail market has undergone a profound transformation, triggered by three legislative 'railway packages' aimed at opening up national markets and making rail more competitive and interoperable at eu level, while maintaining a high level of safety. i did not support the efdd's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the aim of the proposed legislation is to provide a uniform approach to security issues and to simplify the administrative process and patenting for the issuing of security certificates and to issue a single european security certificate. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the aim of the proposed legislation is to provide a uniform approach to security issues and to simplify the administrative process and patenting for the issuing of security certificates and to issue a single european security certificate. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the 4th railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the 2004 revision of the directive focuses on removing the administrative and technical obstacles that currently exist. in the context of increased interoperability, it aims to simplify the requirements for design, construction, maintenance and the qualifications of railway staff, as well as health and safety conditions. this will improve interoperability between member states, with citizens as the main beneficiaries. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the aim of the proposed legislation is to provide a uniform approach to security issues and to simplify the administrative process and patenting for the issuing of security certificates and to issue a single european security certificate. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the aim of the proposed legislation is to provide a uniform approach to security issues and to simplify the administrative process and patenting for the issuing of security certificates and to issue a single european security certificate. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the current legislation, define new tasks and remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the aim of the proposed legislation is to provide a uniform approach to security issues and to simplify the administrative process and patenting for the issuing of security certificates and to issue a single european security certificate. the council approved the first reading on 10 december 2015, which has now been formally confirmed by the european parliament at the second reading. the industry has been waiting for this change for a long time, which brings us one step closer to the single european railway area. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ on 30 january 2013, the commission proposed to the parliament and the council the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety. the council discussed the proposal on 10 october 2013 and parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. the lithuanian parliament, the romanian senate and the swedish parliament submitted reasoned opinions to the effect that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. on 13 october 2014, the interinstitutional consultation following parliament's first reading began. following the consultation, the council published its position at first reading on 15 december 2015. in its report, the committee on transport and tourism recommends that parliament endorse the position adopted by the council at first reading and declare that the directive has been adopted in accordance with the council's position. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on railway safety. directive 2004/49/ec on railway safety established a framework for harmonising the content of safety rules, safety certificates of railway undertakings, the tasks and role of safety authorities and the investigation of accidents. this has prevented member states from continuing to develop their safety rules and standards in accordance with national guidelines, based on national technical and operational considerations. however, the issuing of a safety certificate remained a national competence. the adoption of the draft directive is a welcome step towards extending the regulatory framework of the directive and towards the creation of a single market for rail transport services. i support the enhancement of the role of the european railway agency, the launch of new trainings for railway staff and the improvement of cross-border information exchange. however, proposals for the standardisation of further technical systems (e.g. safety devices) and the discussion of the pnr issue in the context of air travel were also omitted in the context of the extension of the framework of the railway safety directive.
in writing. ‒ to make further efforts towards the creation of a single market for rail transport services, a common regulatory framework for railway safety should be established. member states have developed their own safety rules and standards mainly in accordance with national guidelines, based on national technical and operational approaches. at the same time, differences in principles, methods and cultures have made it difficult to remove technical barriers and thus to establish international transport services. i did not support the efdd's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu initiative to create a common framework of benchmarks that are reliable and correctly used in each of the different member states will help to improve the single market. the european parliament's proposal to regulate benchmarks is in line with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union (teu), which requires the union to act only when and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at union level. although a significant proportion of benchmarks are country-specific, the benchmark industry is international in terms of both the production and use of benchmarks. while national measures on country-specific indices can help to ensure that intervention is tailored to the national problem, this may result in non-uniform, divergent regulation, create unequal conditions of competition in the single market and create an inconsistent and uncoordinated approach. benchmarks are used to price a wide range of cross-border transactions, including in the interbank financing market and in derivatives markets, and it is therefore important that their regulation is adequately harmonised at both international and union level. that is why i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i believe that the eu initiative to create a common framework of benchmarks that are reliable and correctly used in each of the different member states will help to improve the single market. the european parliament's proposal on the regulation of benchmarks is in line with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union (teu), which requires the union to act only when and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at union level. although a significant proportion of benchmarks are country-specific, the benchmark industry is international in terms of both the production and use of benchmarks. while national measures on country-specific indices can help to ensure that intervention is tailored to the national problem, this may result in non-uniform, divergent regulation, create unequal conditions of competition in the single market and create an inconsistent and uncoordinated approach. benchmarks are used to price a wide range of cross-border transactions, including in the interbank financing market and in derivatives markets, and it is therefore important that their regulation is adequately harmonised at both international and union level.
in writing. ‒ in the plenary, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report. i believe that a union initiative to create a common framework of benchmarks that are reliable and correctly used in each of the different member states will contribute to improving the single market. the european parliament's proposal on the regulation of benchmarks is in line with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union (teu), which requires the union to act only when and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at union level. although a significant proportion of benchmarks are country-specific, the benchmark industry is international in terms of both the production and use of benchmarks. while national measures on country-specific indices can help to ensure that intervention is tailored to the national problem, this may result in non-uniform, divergent regulation, create unequal conditions of competition in the single market and create an inconsistent and uncoordinated approach. benchmarks are used to price a wide range of cross-border transactions, including in the interbank financing market and in derivatives markets, and it is therefore important that their regulation is adequately harmonised at both international and union level.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i believe that the eu initiative to create a common framework of benchmarks that are reliable and correctly used in each of the different member states will help to improve the single market. the european parliament's proposal on the regulation of benchmarks is in line with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union (teu), which requires the union to act only when and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at union level. although a significant proportion of benchmarks are country-specific, the benchmark industry is international in terms of both the production and use of benchmarks. while national measures on country-specific indices can help to ensure that intervention is tailored to the national problem, this may result in non-uniform, divergent regulation, create unequal conditions of competition in the single market and create an inconsistent and uncoordinated approach. benchmarks are used to price a wide range of cross-border transactions, including in the interbank financing market and in derivatives markets, and it is therefore important that their regulation is adequately harmonised at both international and union level.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i believe that the eu initiative to create a common framework of benchmarks that are reliable and correctly used in each of the different member states will help to improve the single market. the european parliament's proposal on the regulation of benchmarks is in line with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union (teu), which requires the union to act only when and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at union level. although a significant proportion of benchmarks are country-specific, the benchmark industry is international in terms of both the production and use of benchmarks. while national measures on country-specific indices can help to ensure that intervention is tailored to the national problem, this may result in non-uniform, divergent regulation, create unequal conditions of competition in the single market and create an inconsistent and uncoordinated approach. benchmarks are used to price a wide range of cross-border transactions, including in the interbank financing market and in derivatives markets, and it is therefore important that their regulation is adequately harmonised at both international and union level.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i believe that the eu initiative to create a common framework of benchmarks that are reliable and correctly used in each of the different member states will help to improve the single market. the european parliament's proposal on the regulation of benchmarks is in line with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union (teu), which requires the union to act only when and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at union level. although a significant proportion of benchmarks are country-specific, the benchmark industry is international in terms of both the production and use of benchmarks. while national measures on country-specific indices can help to ensure that intervention is tailored to the national problem, this may result in non-uniform, divergent regulation, create unequal conditions of competition in the single market and create an inconsistent and uncoordinated approach. benchmarks are used to price a wide range of cross-border transactions, including in the interbank financing market and in derivatives markets, and it is therefore important that their regulation is adequately harmonised at both international and union level.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i believe that the eu initiative to create a common framework of benchmarks that are reliable and correctly used in each of the different member states will help to improve the single market. the european parliament's proposal on the regulation of benchmarks is in line with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union (teu), which requires the union to act only when and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at union level. although a significant proportion of benchmarks are country-specific, the benchmark industry is international in terms of both the production and use of benchmarks. while national measures on country-specific indices can help to ensure that intervention is tailored to the national problem, this may result in non-uniform, divergent regulation, create unequal conditions of competition in the single market and create an inconsistent and uncoordinated approach. benchmarks are used to price a wide range of cross-border transactions, including in the interbank financing market and in derivatives markets, and it is therefore important that their regulation is adequately harmonised at both international and union level.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council a regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial transactions. the uk house of commons submitted a reasoned opinion that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. in its report, the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that parliament give its agreement to the commission's draft, with a substantial modification, at first reading. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial transactions. indeed, benchmarks are of crucial importance for the smooth functioning and stability of financial, commodity and other markets and the wider economy. i therefore agree that further legislative action is needed for benchmarks in wider use to improve governance mechanisms and to reduce conflicts of interest and other shortcomings. i support the triple objective of the report to strengthen governance systems and standards, in particular for widely used and systemically important benchmarks, to reduce their vulnerability to manipulation and abuse; to increase transparency by making more information available to all benchmark users, allowing informed decision-making; and finally to maintain a wide choice and availability of benchmarks, with proportionate application of governance requirements. i also support the addition to the report which, while highlighting the strategic importance of critical benchmarks, suggests that it may be appropriate to empower esma to take decisions directly applicable to benchmark administrators and, where appropriate, to benchmark data providers in cases where national competent authorities fail to apply this regulation or infringe union law.
in writing. ‒ the manipulation of libor and foreign exchange benchmarks, and the alleged manipulation of other indices, have drawn attention to the importance and vulnerability of benchmarks. in response to these findings, the union amended its market abuse legislation to clarify that the manipulation of benchmarks is illegal and to establish the criminal relevance of such conduct. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european commission and the executive agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european commission and the executive agencies in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report was voted on by the special committee at its meeting in early april and it was decided to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european commission and the executive agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report was voted on by the special committee at its meeting in early april and it was decided to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european commission and the executive agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report was voted on by the special committee at its meeting in early april and it was decided to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european commission and the executive agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report was voted on by the special committee at its meeting in early april and it was decided to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european commission and the executive agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report was voted on by the special committee at its meeting in early april and it was decided to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european commission and the executive agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report was voted on by the special committee at its meeting in early april and it was decided to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. one thing about the budget allocation by item, we have discussions. it's one thing to accept fulfillment. the latter has no material objections, as it is within the margin of error for the year 2014. unfortunately, rural development has been the least successful of these. i will of course, however, raise the point of disagreement in every new budget debate.
in writing. ‒ the commission has submitted the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014, and the executive agencies (education, audiovisual and culture executive agency, sme executive agency, consumers, health and food executive agency, european research council executive agency, research executive agency, innovation and networks projects executive agency) have submitted their final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, the council recommended that the commission and the executive agencies be relieved of their responsibility for the implementation of the general budget for the financial year 2014. in its report, the committee on budgetary control recommends that parliament give the abovementioned bodies a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 for the european commission and its executive agencies. in considering the findings of the report, i took into account that 2014 was a special year, essentially a prolonged one, also from a budgetary point of view, due to the new commission and the parliamentary elections. i consider the comments made in the general part of the decision to be of great importance for an even more prudent and transparent budget, which i believe can be put to good use in the context of the mff mid-term review.
in writing. ‒ under the treaty on european union, the commission implements the budget and manages programmes, in cooperation with the member states and on its own responsibility, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in compliance with the principles of sound financial management. the commission may grant exemptions in certain cases. i supported the proposal in line with the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors, in its follow-up to its special reports, states that 23 of the 44 recommendations in the economic sub-areas concerned have been fully implemented, while in 18 cases there is no or only partial implementation. these recommendations which were not implemented concerned mainly the important areas of agricultural policy, social policy, competition policy and external relations. the report highlights a number of shortcomings, non-transparent decision-making and responsibility-sharing mechanisms and insufficient traceability of the previous recommendations. the figures above clearly show that compliance with the court's recommendations is barely above 50%, which calls into question not only efficiency but also the requirements for transparent operation. on all these grounds, i did not support granting the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, shall draw up its report on the court of auditors' special reports relating to the commission's discharge for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the recommendations of the parliament's motion on the court's reports are incorporated in this committee report. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control shall, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, draw up its report on the court of auditors' special reports relating to the commission's discharge for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the recommendations of the parliament's motion on the court's reports are incorporated in this committee report. the report was voted on by the committee at its first meeting in april, and i supported the adoption of the report in both the committee vote and the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, shall draw up its report on the court of auditors' special reports relating to the commission's discharge for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the recommendations of the parliament's motion on the court's reports are incorporated in this committee report. the report was voted on by the committee at its meeting in early april. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, shall draw up its report on the court of auditors' special reports relating to the commission's discharge for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the recommendations of the parliament's motion on the court's reports are incorporated in this committee report. the report was voted on by the committee at its first meeting in april, and i supported the adoption of the report in both the committee vote and the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, shall draw up its report on the court of auditors' special reports relating to the commission's discharge for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the recommendations of the parliament's motion on the court's reports are incorporated in this committee report. the report was voted on by the committee at its first meeting in april, and i supported the adoption of the report in both the committee vote and the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, shall draw up its report on the court of auditors' special reports relating to the commission's discharge for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the recommendations of the parliament's motion on the court's reports are incorporated in this committee report. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, shall draw up its report on the court of auditors' special reports relating to the commission's discharge for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the recommendations of the parliament's motion on the court's reports are incorporated in this committee report. the report was voted on by the committee at its first meeting in april, and i supported the adoption of the report in both the committee vote and the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, shall draw up its report on the court of auditors' special reports relating to the commission's discharge for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the recommendations of the parliament's motion on the court's reports are incorporated in this committee report. the report was voted on by the committee at its first meeting in april, and i supported the adoption of the report in both the committee vote and the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the court's special reports provide information on issues of concern relating to the use of funds and are therefore useful to parliament in exercising its role as discharge authority. the committee on budgetary control's report reviews four of the court's special reports from 2014, 19 from 2015 and one from 2016 and recommends that parliament make recommendations on the basis of these reports. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the special report encourages the court to examine all europeaid funding mechanisms to check that the price-value ratio is right and that eu funding effectively contributes to the promotion of eu objectives and values. considers that projects financed by the union should be aligned with policy objectives in neighbouring countries, taking into account the accountability of beneficiaries and the substitutability of union funding; i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european development funds are the main instruments of cooperation for the delivery of eu aid to support development cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific states and overseas countries and territories, and it is therefore important to ensure their careful control and transparency in their management. several of the court's observations raise concerns, including the increase in the estimated error rate for expenditure under the funds; and the fact that 52 out of 133 payment transactions for projects were affected by errors. on the basis of the court of auditors' assessment of the legality and regularity of the payments, which it characterised as a material error, and on the basis that the non-compliance of the beneficiaries with the public procurement rules and the lack of documents to substantiate expenditure were also significant deficiencies, i did not support the discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the european development fund for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, the financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, the financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, the financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, the financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, the financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, the financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the financial statements and the revenue and expenditure accounts of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014, and of the annual report of the court of auditors on the activities supported by these funds for the financial year 2014, the council, on 12 february 2016, recommended that the commission be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the operations of the european development fund for the financial year 2014. in its report, the committee on budgetary control recommends that parliament grant the discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the proposal provides for a discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. i voted in favour of the s&d group's leadership.
in writing. ‒ it is positive that, on the basis of the court's report, the audit evidence as a whole suggests that the expenditure on administration is not characterised by a significant error rate, with an estimated error rate of 0,5% based on the audit of contracts. the court's recommendation that parliament should strengthen the control of reimbursements granted by european political parties to their affiliated organisations is an initiative to be supported in order to push political actors towards even more transparent management. the european political parties and in particular the public procurement they carry out should be fully transparent and traceable. as regards the control of parliament's internal control framework, it is reassuring that the planned internal control measures have been implemented almost 100%, and the measures proposed in the draft, which aimed at reducing bureaucracy and simplifying administrative procedures, are also to be assessed positively. since the motion contained a number of legitimate criticisms, suggestions and comments on the functioning of the parliament, i supported its adoption.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the court of auditors found during its audits that the resources were used for the right purposes and that the institution had a satisfactory system of supervision and control. although the audit did not reveal any serious deficiencies, it stresses the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found during its audits that the resources were used for the right purposes and that the institution had a satisfactory system of supervision and control. although the audit did not reveal any serious deficiencies, it stresses the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found during its audits that the resources were used for the right purposes and that the institution had a satisfactory system of supervision and control. although the audit did not reveal any serious deficiencies, it stresses the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found during its audits that the resources were used for the right purposes and that the institution had a satisfactory system of supervision and control. although the audit did not reveal any serious deficiencies, it stresses the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found during its audits that the resources were used for the right purposes and that the institution had a satisfactory system of supervision and control. although the audit did not reveal any serious deficiencies, it stresses the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found during its audits that the resources were used for the right purposes and that the institution had a satisfactory system of supervision and control. although the audit did not reveal any serious deficiencies, it stresses the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found during its audits that the resources were used for the right purposes and that the institution had a satisfactory system of supervision and control. although the audit did not reveal any serious deficiencies, it stresses the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found during its audits that the resources were used for the right purposes and that the institution had a satisfactory system of supervision and control. although the audit did not reveal any serious deficiencies, it stresses the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the committee on budgetary control, on the basis of the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014, section i of the report on the budgetary and financial management for the year 2014, the internal auditor's annual report for the financial year 2014 and the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, recommends that parliament give its president discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2014. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's resolution on discharge to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014. in considering the findings of the report, i took into account that 2014 was a special year from a budgetary point of view, due to the innovations introduced in the conduct of the elections to the european parliament and the election of the president, and that the ep budget, while adequately funding the ep's functioning, also met this challenge. i find the comments made in this connection in the evaluation part of the decision particularly useful, which i believe will be useful in the budgetary and methodological planning of the next election years.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's accounting officer stated, when certifying the final accounts for 2014, that he had reasonable assurance that the accounts gave a reliable and true picture of parliament's financial position in all material respects and that he was not aware of any matters that should have raised his reservations. i voted in favour of the s&d group's leadership.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 were, overall, free from material error. nevertheless, the committee objected to the council's cooperation with parliament during the final accounts procedure. the council refused to cooperate and consequently the panel was not able to carry out its tasks necessary for granting the exemption. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 were, overall, free from material error. nevertheless, the committee objected to the council's cooperation with parliament during the final accounts procedure. the council refused to cooperate and consequently the panel was not able to carry out its tasks necessary for granting the exemption. the panel decided at its april meeting to postpone granting the waiver. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 were, overall, free from material error. nevertheless, the committee objected to the council's cooperation with parliament during the final accounts procedure. the council refused to cooperate and consequently the panel was not able to carry out its tasks necessary for granting the exemption. the panel decided at its april meeting to postpone granting the waiver. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 were, overall, free from material error. nevertheless, the committee objected to the council's cooperation with parliament during the final accounts procedure. the council refused to cooperate and consequently the panel was not able to carry out its tasks necessary for granting the exemption. the panel decided at its april meeting to postpone granting the waiver. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 were, overall, free from material error. nevertheless, the committee objected to the council's cooperation with parliament during the final accounts procedure. the council refused to cooperate and consequently the panel was not able to carry out its tasks necessary for granting the exemption. the panel decided at its april meeting to postpone granting the waiver. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 were, overall, free from material error. nevertheless, the committee objected to the council's cooperation with parliament during the final accounts procedure. the council refused to cooperate and consequently the panel was not able to carry out its tasks necessary for granting the exemption. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 were, overall, free from material error. nevertheless, the committee objected to the council's cooperation with parliament during the final accounts procedure. the council refused to cooperate and consequently the panel was not able to carry out its tasks necessary for granting the exemption. the panel decided at its april meeting to postpone granting the waiver. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 were, overall, free from material error. nevertheless, the committee objected to the council's cooperation with parliament during the final accounts procedure. the council refused to cooperate and consequently the panel was not able to carry out its tasks necessary for granting the exemption. the panel decided at its april meeting to postpone granting the waiver. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. the council spends large sums of eu public money each year in a completely opaque way and has refused to give an account since 2009, i.e. to submit to the european parliament's discharge procedure. i supported the report because it is unacceptable that they refuse to account for the use of public funds and refuse to provide the information needed for the audit, to answer written questions and to participate in hearings and debates on the implementation of the council budget. eu citizens are right to expect the council to change its behaviour.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the committee on budgetary control, on the basis of the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 and the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, recommends that parliament postpone its decision granting the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, convinced that the council, like the other eu institutions, has an obligation to report and account for its budget to the european parliament and thus to the european citizens. i consider it important that the relevant council bodies and, where appropriate, the member states provide the european parliament with all the information and cooperation necessary to ensure transparency and to monitor the efficient and lawful use of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the council should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to it by participating fully and in good faith in the annual discharge procedure in the same way as the other eu institutions. the effective monitoring of the implementation of the union budget requires cooperation between parliament and the council based on a cooperation agreement. i voted for it, following the s&d line.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur, in relation to the discharge of the court for the year 2014, points out that the court has conducted transparent financial management. the annual report contains only minor deficiencies, such as the absence of information on the external activities or financial activities of the judges on the website. the number and use of official vehicles is not adequately limited and the budget allocated to them is therefore excessive. apart from all this, the ecj has been at the forefront of resource-efficient, green public procurement and transparent property management. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2014 were essentially free from error. in its annual report for 2014, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2014 were essentially free from error. in its annual report for 2014, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2014 were essentially free from error. in its annual report for 2014, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2014 were essentially free from error. in its annual report for 2014, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2014 were essentially error-free. in its annual report for 2014, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2014 were essentially free from error. in its annual report for 2014, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2014 were essentially free from error. in its annual report for 2014, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2014 were essentially free from error. in its annual report for 2014, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the committee on budgetary control, on the basis of the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 and the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, recommends that parliament give a discharge to the registrar of the court of justice in respect of the implementation of the budget of the court of justice for the financial year 2014. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's decision on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of the european court of justice. in considering the findings of the report, i took into account that the court's predominantly administrative management and expenditure in 2014 were efficient and well-served to its operational purpose, and that the accounts as a whole and in detail were also favourably assessed by the court's report. i have considered, and i consider it important in general, that the court of justice, which is the main guarantee of the proper functioning of the union, should be able to rely on adequately funded administrative and staff facilities for its operation.
in writing. ‒ in its annual report for the financial year 2014, the court of auditors found that the court of justice of the european union had not identified any significant weaknesses in the areas audited related to human resources and procurement. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the court's annual accounts were prepared by an external audit firm, following the same principles of transparency and accountability as those on which the court's audits are based. it is based on the view that the accounts give a reliable and true picture of the court's financial position. it is worth noting that the court of auditors started its reform at the end of 2014 with the aim of streamlining audit processes, transforming the court into a task-oriented organisation, seeking to use available resources flexibly and expanding the staff's remit. in the latter respect, it should be noted that the institution is doing its utmost to ensure the regular training of its auditors, as evidenced by its cooperation with several higher education institutions and its efforts to establish specialised training for european auditors. in view of the positive findings of the audit firm, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the report notes that the court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor, so that it can apply the same transparency and accountability as for audited entities. the financial statements give a true picture of the court's financial situation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report notes that the court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor, so that it can apply the same transparency and accountability as for audited entities. the financial statements give a true picture of the court's financial situation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report notes that the court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor, so that it can apply the same transparency and accountability as for audited entities. the financial statements give a true picture of the court's financial situation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report notes that the court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor, so that it can apply the same transparency and accountability as for audited entities. the financial statements give a true picture of the court's financial situation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report notes that the court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor, so that it can apply the same transparency and accountability as for audited entities. the financial statements give a true picture of the court's financial situation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report notes that the court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor, so that it can apply the same transparency and accountability as for audited entities. the financial statements give a true picture of the court's financial situation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the committee on budgetary control, on the basis of the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 and the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, recommends that parliament give a discharge to the secretary-general of the court of auditors in respect of the implementation of the budget of the court of auditors for the financial year 2014. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 as regards the european court of auditors. in considering the findings of the report, i took into account the important role of the court of auditors in the control and in ensuring the efficiency and transparency of the general budget of the union, and the fact that the court of auditors has recently embarked on important efficiency reforms in its own operation, administration and management. the court's budget was, of course, audited in the year under review by an external auditor whose findings were entirely reassuring from the point of view of the union's budgetary interests.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors plays a key role in ensuring that eu funds are used better and smarter, but it is also of paramount importance in providing the legislator and the budgetary authority with valuable opinions on the results achieved by eu policies and their outcomes in order to improve the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the activities financed by the union. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ for the discharge to the european economic and social committee (eesc), the rapporteur proposes to grant a discharge. it gives a positive assessment of the commission's management and highlights the results achieved in reducing the annual wage costs of interpreting and outsourced translation work, which has led to a reduction in the annual total budget. it should be noted, however, that the travel expenses paid to the eesc's beneficiaries, together with allowances, represented a very high amount, 13% of the total annual budget. in view of all this, i voted in favour of granting the discharge and accepting the report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that the payments for 2014 were free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the economic and social committee in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that the payments for 2014 were free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that the payments for 2014 were free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that the payments for 2014 were free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that the payments for 2014 were free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that the payments for 2014 were free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that the payments for 2014 were free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the 2014 closure of accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that the payments for 2014 were free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report giving the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the commission's budget for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors' examination of the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2014 as a whole is welcomed as free from material error. i also welcome the fact that, following the court's findings, the committee has set up a public procurement support service to assist the dgs in their work. i also welcome the establishment of a cooperation agreement between the eesc and parliament.
in writing. ‒ the eesc budget is purely administrative and consists of a significant part of expenditure relating to the staff of the institution, the remainder being related to buildings, equipment and installations and other maintenance costs. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ although the committee of the regions' budget is purely administrative and a significant part of it is spent on staff, the report has been critical of the rapporteur on several occasions. the commission has also received a number of letters from the european parliament and the council, including from the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. the rapporteur shall propose a detailed description of the expenditure, the reporting of figures for future deployments and a cost-benefit analysis. although the rapporteur draws attention to other problems in the chapter on 'the rules on whistleblowing, conflicts of interest and revolving door phenomena', i nevertheless supported the motion, as the rapporteur emphasised that the court's examination had not revealed any significant weaknesses in the areas audited in relation to human resources and procurement.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court found that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the committee on budgetary control, on the basis of the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 and the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, proposes that parliament give a discharge to the secretary-general of the committee of the regions in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's decision on the discharge to the committee of the regions for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for 2014. in considering the findings of the report, i took into account the important democratic role played by the committee of the regions in achieving the union's objectives, in particular in promoting the principles of citizenship and subsidiarity. i am confident that the observations made have over time corrected the shortcomings in terms of the disproportion of the mission expenses and, through agreements and closer cooperation with the union partner institutions, in particular in terms of the more efficient functioning of the translation services and the administration.
in writing. ‒ in its annual report for the financial year 2014, the court of auditors found that no significant weaknesses were identified in the areas audited for the committee of the regions related to human resources and procurement. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur notes that the european external action service (eeas) has continued to implement its budget without material error and that the overall error rate in the administrative budget has been estimated by the court of auditors at 0,5%. it points out that a new organisational structure has been introduced, streamlining the previous high-management administrative structure towards a less hierarchical system. it wrongly points out that the internal administrative and financial framework of the eeas is still too complex and rigid, which means that the current structure does not allow the eeas to respond to crises in a timely manner, and similarly access to key information is time-consuming. i disagree with the report's finding that the proportion of member state diplomats (59 out of 128) among heads of mission is excessive. in any case, the move towards excessive centralisation and the creation of a federal state is the merger of the diplomatic missions of the member states with those of the eu, citing cost-effectiveness. for these reasons, i did not support the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european external action service in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european external action service in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european external action service in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european external action service in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european external action service in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european external action service in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european external action service in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european external action service in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the committee on budgetary control, on the basis of the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 and the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, recommends that parliament give a discharge to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2014. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of the european external action service. in considering the findings of the report, i have taken into account that the 2014 operation already shows significant progress towards a more efficient and transparent organisation of the tasks and work of the eeas and, consequently, a better management of the community budgetary instruments. however, the report also points out shortcomings that require further action, of which i consider particularly important the comments on the need for more effective and better controlled functioning of the foreign delegations supervised by the eeas, more efficient management of human resources and the need for a proportionate appointment policy by the member states that takes better account of the interests of the countries, in particular those that joined in 2004.
in writing. ‒ the european external action service (eeas) continued to implement its budget without material error and the overall error rate for the administrative budget was estimated by the court at 0.5%. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ given that the court of auditors' examination did not reveal any significant weaknesses in the areas audited relating to human resources and procurement for the european ombudsman, i supported the adoption of the proposal. the payments for administrative and other expenditure are generally free from material error, the institution has carried out own-initiative inquiries in line with its strategy, which is an effective tool for taking a more systematic and systematic approach to the complex issues within its remit. the strategy introduces new performance indicators with very specific targets. in addition, in order to make the institution's work more efficient, a new position of internal coordinator, the 'coordinator of own-initiative inquiries', was created.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2014 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2014 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2014 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2014 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2014 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2014 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2014 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2014 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the committee on budgetary control, on the basis of the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 and the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, proposes that parliament give a discharge to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2014. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of the european ombudsman and his office. in considering the findings of the report, i took into account the fact that the ombudsman plays an important role in ensuring the credibility of the union, citizens' trust in the community institutions, transparency and legality. i am confident that the tensions mentioned in the report, such as the workload of the ombudsman, the high number of requests outside his mandate or external assignments, will be addressed by the present observations and will ensure even more fully the conditions for the effective functioning of this important european judicial institution in the future.
in writing. ‒ in its annual report for the financial year 2014, the court found that the european ombudsman had not identified any significant weaknesses in the areas audited relating to human resources and procurement. i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ the commissioner for data protection has unjustifiably classified the 2014 court of auditors report in his annual activity report, which i believe is a decision against transparency. in my opinion, the data protection commissioner should be asked to continue to include a scoreboard in his annual activity report and to attach to the document documents governing his property management. it is important that the costs associated with these remain rational. the rapporteur expects the edps to provide detailed information on the secondments of its members and staff and their costs by the end of may 2016 as part of the annual activity report . i find it difficult to understand that the edps has not published exhaustive information on his conflict of interest policy. in my view, this accidental or intentional deficiency should be corrected and the edps should, in accordance with the rules laid down in article 16 of the staff regulations and in line with the recommendations issued by the commission, establish clear and binding rules on the 'revolving door' phenomenon and inform parliament of this in the 2015 annual activity report. the same applies to public procurement procedures for which no relevant information is available on the website, and neither the selection criteria nor the contracts awarded or concluded are transparent. on the basis of the above, i voted against the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors has found that the payments made to the european data protection supervisor for administrative and other expenditure in the financial year ended 31 december 2014 were, on the whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place to ensure the correctness and effectiveness of the payments were effective. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the payments made to the european data protection supervisor for administrative and other expenditure in the financial year ended 31 december 2014 were, on the whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place to ensure the correctness and effectiveness of the payments were effective. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the payments made to the european data protection supervisor for administrative and other expenditure in the financial year ended 31 december 2014 were, on the whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place to ensure the correctness and effectiveness of the payments were effective. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the payments made to the european data protection supervisor for administrative and other expenditure in the financial year ended 31 december 2014 were, on the whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place to ensure the correctness and effectiveness of the payments were effective. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the payments made to the european data protection supervisor for administrative and other expenditure in the financial year ended 31 december 2014 were, on the whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place to ensure the correctness and effectiveness of the payments were effective. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the payments made to the european data protection supervisor for administrative and other expenditure in the financial year ended 31 december 2014 were, on the whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place to ensure the correctness and effectiveness of the payments were effective. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the payments made to the european data protection supervisor for administrative and other expenditure in the financial year ended 31 december 2014 were, on the whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place to ensure the correctness and effectiveness of the payments were effective. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the payments made to the european data protection supervisor for administrative and other expenditure in the financial year ended 31 december 2014 were, on the whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place to ensure the correctness and effectiveness of the payments were effective. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the committee on budgetary control, on the basis of the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 and the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, proposes that parliament give a discharge to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's decision on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 as regards the functioning of the european data protection supervisor. in considering the findings of the report, i have taken into account that the role of the edps and the issue of personal data protection in general have recently become increasingly important in eu legislation and in member state enforcement, partly due to the increased importance of the fight against international crime and terrorism, and partly due to the increased importance of external cooperation and the euro-atlantic trade negotiations. i am convinced that the edps is an important guarantee for european citizens of the eu's credibility and its legitimate functioning, and i therefore hope that the validation of the findings contained in the report will further improve the future conditions for the functioning of our community legal institution.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the commissioner had a total budget of eur 8 012 953 (compared to eur 7 661 409 in 2013) and a budget implementation rate of 92% (compared to 84,7% in 2013). the report welcomes the improvement in performance. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014, as the examinations have shown that the final accounts of all decentralised agencies reflect the financial situation as at 31 december 2014 in all material respects and in accordance with the provisions of the relevant financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. the transactions underlying the annual accounts for the year ended 31 december 2014 were legal and regular in all material respects for the institutions. despite my vote in favour, i consider it necessary to emphasise that the rapporteur expresses concern that some agencies are partly financed by fees paid by industry, as these financial ties may affect their independence. it calls on all agencies to take measures to ensure the independence of their internal and external activities. it is important to encourage institutions to adopt guidelines on reporting abuses and to do everything possible to improve the overall prevention of and fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it emphasises the need to further reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. it proposes to strengthen communication and cooperation and to make better use of synergies between the agencies and parliament. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of the report in both the committee and the plenary.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it emphasises the need to further reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. it proposes to strengthen communication and cooperation and to make better use of synergies between the agencies and parliament. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of the report in both the committee and the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it emphasises the need to further reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. it proposes to strengthen communication and cooperation and to make better use of synergies between the agencies and parliament. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it emphasises the need to further reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. it proposes to strengthen communication and cooperation and to make better use of synergies between the agencies and parliament. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of the report in both the committee and the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it emphasises the need to further reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. it proposes to strengthen communication and cooperation and to make better use of synergies between the agencies and parliament. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of the report in both the committee and the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it emphasises the need to further reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. it proposes to strengthen communication and cooperation and to make better use of synergies between the agencies and parliament. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it emphasises the need to further reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. it proposes to strengthen communication and cooperation and to make better use of synergies between the agencies and parliament. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it emphasises the need to further reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. it proposes to strengthen communication and cooperation and to make better use of synergies between the agencies and parliament. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of the report in both the committee and the plenary.
in writing. an objective, supportable report that correctly identifies changes that are needed and are already underway. acknowledges that the final accounts of each decentralised agency are accurate in all material respects and reflect the financial position as at 31 december 2014, the result of the economic events and the cash flows for the year in question, in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer; it is rightly concerned that some agencies are partly financed by fees paid by industry, as these financial constraints may affect their independence.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on budgetary control shall include comprehensive findings accompanying the discharge decisions on the implementation of the budget of the agencies of the european union for the financial year 2014, based on the special reports of the court of auditors on the annual accounts of the decentralised agencies for the year 2014. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the tasks carried out by the agencies are important and have a direct impact on the daily lives of eu citizens. the autonomy of the union agencies is significant, in particular for regulatory and independent information gathering agencies. the main reason for the creation of the agencies was to produce independent technical and scientific assessments. i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators had submitted a reliable annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. acknowledges that the agency has implemented a number of measures to improve its budget planning and implementation processes; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators had submitted a reliable annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. acknowledges that the agency has implemented a number of measures to improve its budget planning and implementation processes; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators had submitted a reliable annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. acknowledges that the agency has implemented a number of measures to improve its budget planning and implementation processes; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators had submitted a reliable annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. acknowledges that the agency has implemented a number of measures to improve its budget planning and implementation processes; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators had submitted a reliable annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. acknowledges that the agency has implemented a number of measures to improve its budget planning and implementation processes; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 discharge report as it found the agency's performance for that year to be satisfactory in all respects. according to the financial statements, the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014 represents a decrease of 8,8% compared to 2013. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency shall, in particular, ensure that the agency's annual report on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance is updated regularly. i believe that since we are talking about an entirely eu resource, we can only give the green light to the agencies with full transparency and proper financial implementation. the report notes that not only was the available resource correctly spent, but that budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 95%. the agency thus achieved its planned target, which represents an increase of 2,53% compared to 2013. the report also states that the agency's annual reports can play an important role in ensuring compliance with the principles of transparency, accountability and integrity. i hope that the hungarian institutions will also reach this level of transparency one day.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had satisfied itself that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european electronic communications regulators board in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the body for european electronic communications regulations for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency needs to improve its it security controls and risk management processes. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the body for european electronic communications regulations in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the body for european electronic communications regulations for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency needs to improve its it security controls and risk management processes. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european electronic communications regulators board in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the body for european electronic communications regulations for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency needs to improve its it security controls and risk management processes. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european electronic communications regulators board in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the body for european electronic communications regulations for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency needs to improve its it security controls and risk management processes. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european electronic communications regulators board in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the body for european electronic communications regulations for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency needs to improve its it security controls and risk management processes. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european electronic communications regulators board in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the body for european electronic communications regulations for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency needs to improve its it security controls and risk management processes. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european electronic communications regulators board in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the body for european electronic communications regulations for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency needs to improve its it security controls and risk management processes. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the management committee of the office be relieved of its responsibility for the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the final annual accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the translation centre for the bodies of the european union has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the director of the translation centre be relieved of his responsibility for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of the translation centre of the european union. as a member of the european parliament, i experience firsthand the importance of the work of translators in the smooth and legal functioning of all eu institutions, especially the large and multilingual european parliament, and i have taken this into account when considering the findings of this report. it is to be appreciated that the translation centre has also successfully met the challenge of the multiplied tasks posed by the enlargement of the eu from a budgetary point of view. in the interests of sound management, i myself particularly support the solutions that the translation centre seeks to exploit the synergies of its cooperation with the other eu institutions and bodies.
in writing. ‒ the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 was eur 56 268 041, a decrease of 7,81% compared to 2013. i voted in favour of the related document.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, concerning the european training and development centre. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it welcomes the dual education system used in some member states, but points out that it does not guarantee that the problem of youth unemployment will be solved. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for the development of vocational training in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it welcomes the dual education system used in some member states, but points out that it does not guarantee that the problem of youth unemployment will be solved. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, concerning the european training and development centre. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it welcomes the dual education system used in some member states, but points out that it does not guarantee that the problem of youth unemployment will be solved. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, concerning the european training and development centre. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it welcomes the dual education system used in some member states, but points out that it does not guarantee that the problem of youth unemployment will be solved. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, concerning the european training and development centre. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it welcomes the dual education system used in some member states, but points out that it does not guarantee that the problem of youth unemployment will be solved. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, concerning the european training and development centre. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it welcomes the dual education system used in some member states, but points out that it does not guarantee that the problem of youth unemployment will be solved. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for the development of vocational training has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the director of the centre be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the report gives a discharge to the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014, as the centre's management in 2014 met all relevant criteria. that is why i voted in favour of the report. the report describes that the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2014 was eur 17 275 766, representing a decrease of 3,62% compared to 2013. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts of the centre were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. following the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2014, the budget implementation rate was 98,93%, which is the same as in the financial year 2013, which i consider to be a very good result. i consider it important that the centre's management board adopted its policy on conflict prevention and management in october 2014, adapted to the centre's situation and covering specific situations of conflict that may arise in the centre. in this context, a large number of the members of the centre's management board signed a public declaration that there was no conflict of interest in their case. the report urges those board members who have not yet signed the declaration to do so as soon as possible. the same steps would be particularly welcome for the hungarian authorities.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had satisfied itself that the centre's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european police college in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014. although the court of auditors found the operations underlying the academy's annual accounts to be legal and regular, it also stressed that the rate of carry-overs to the following year was still high and therefore called for improvement and for compliance with the principle of the annual budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european police college in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014. although the court of auditors found the operations underlying the academy's annual accounts to be legal and regular, it also stressed that the rate of carry-overs to the following year was still high and therefore called for improvement and for compliance with the principle of the annual budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european police college in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014. although the court of auditors found the operations underlying the academy's annual accounts to be legal and regular, it also stressed that the rate of carry-overs to the following year was still high and therefore called for improvement and for compliance with the principle of the annual budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european police college in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014. although the court of auditors found the operations underlying the academy's annual accounts to be legal and regular, it also stressed that the rate of carry-overs to the following year was still high and therefore called for improvement and for compliance with the principle of the annual budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european police college in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014. although the court of auditors found the operations underlying the academy's annual accounts to be legal and regular, it also stressed that the rate of carry-overs to the following year was still high and therefore called for improvement and for compliance with the principle of the annual budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european police college in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014. although the court of auditors found the operations underlying the academy's annual accounts to be legal and regular, it also stressed that the rate of carry-overs to the following year was still high and therefore called for improvement and for compliance with the principle of the annual budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european police college has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the director of the european police college be relieved of his responsibility for the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of the european police college (cepol). i have paid particular attention to the findings of the report because, as a hungarian representative, i attach great importance to the fact that this relatively small but important eu office operates in my country's capital. i was pleased to note that the submission also showed that the relocation of the academy from the uk to budapest was organisational, operational and budgetary smooth and that cepol was operating in a dignified and in all respects adequate manner in the light of the particular attacks on the relocation decision. i believe this is also important because the academy will play an increasingly important role in the coming years in developing and applying a common approach to effective eu action against cross-border and international organised crime.
in writing. ‒ according to the financial statement, the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014 was eur 8 575 859, representing an increase of 1,48% compared to 2013. i voted in favour of the budapest institute document.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european aviation safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european aviation safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european aviation safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european aviation safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european aviation safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european aviation safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european aviation safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european aviation safety agency has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014, which clears the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014. like the rapporteur, i welcome the agency's cooperation with other agencies, in particular the fact that the agency provides free access to human resources tools and provides a permanent secretariat to serve the network of eu agencies. the measures taken by the agency to increase efficiency and save money should also be acknowledged. however, i agree with the report and find the agency's current procurement planning, particularly in relation to framework contracts, worrying. the agency should take action in this regard. finally, as the report also highlights, in the light of the rapid development of the civil aviation sector, it is necessary to provide the agency with the necessary financial, physical and human resources in the field of safety and environmental protection to successfully carry out its regulatory and enforcement tasks, without compromising its independence or impartiality.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european asylum support office in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european asylum support office in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european asylum support office in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european asylum support office in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european asylum support office in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european asylum support office in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european asylum support office in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the executive director of the office be relieved of his responsibility for the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of the european asylum support office. the commission has also provided a report on the implementation of the european asylum support office (easo) in the context of the european union's new asylum policy. this is the point made in the motion for a resolution and i will continue to support any initiative to ensure that this important eu office can meet the requirements of this extraordinary challenge.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had satisfied itself that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european banking authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it stresses that the authority should exercise powers for consumer protection and calls for the authority to coordinate its actions with other european supervisory authorities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european banking authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it stresses that the authority should exercise powers for consumer protection and calls for the authority to coordinate its actions with other european supervisory authorities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european banking authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it stresses that the authority should exercise powers for consumer protection and calls for the authority to coordinate its actions with other european supervisory authorities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european banking authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it stresses that the authority should exercise powers for consumer protection and calls for the authority to coordinate its actions with other european supervisory authorities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european banking authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it stresses that the authority should exercise powers for consumer protection and calls for the authority to coordinate its actions with other european supervisory authorities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european banking authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it stresses that the authority should exercise powers for consumer protection and calls for the authority to coordinate its actions with other european supervisory authorities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european banking authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it stresses that the authority should exercise powers for consumer protection and calls for the authority to coordinate its actions with other european supervisory authorities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european banking authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it stresses that the authority should exercise powers for consumer protection and calls for the authority to coordinate its actions with other european supervisory authorities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european banking authority has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the executive director of the authority be relieved of his responsibility for the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european banking authority, which approved the closure of the authority's accounts on the basis that the court of auditors had found the authority's accounts to be reliable and the underlying transactions to be legal and regular. the authority's performance in budget implementation and payment appropriations for the financial year 2014 is to be welcomed. the authority's close cooperation with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority is also welcome. however, like the rapporteur, i regret that the authority has not been able to inform the eu legislator in a proper and comprehensive manner of all the details of its ongoing work and that in some cases documents were only forwarded to the eu legislator after they had been made public.
in writing. ‒ the final annual accounts of the european banking authority shall be as annexed to the court of auditors' report. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. the report on the discharge of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the year 2014 states that the centre's budget execution rate for the year 2014 reached 98% and that it has therefore substantially exhausted its budget for that year. in addition, it requested a specific additional allocation (eur 2 million) for sweden alone to cover the additional expenditure incurred in that member state. the report analyses objectively the centre's budget for the financial year in question, but at the same time draws attention to the fact that, following the good practice already established by the other underlying institutions, an attempt is being made to reduce the carry-over of commitment appropriations to the following financial year. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances, following its financial audits, that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances, following its financial audits, that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances, following its financial audits, that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances, following its financial audits, that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances, following its financial audits, that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances, following its financial audits, that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances, following its financial audits, that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the director of the centre be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report approving the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 by the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control. the report describes that the financial statements show that the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 was eur 60 486 000, representing an increase of 3,72% compared to 2013, and that 97% of the budget of the centre comes from the union budget. the court of auditors also found that it had obtained sufficient assurance as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i consider it an outstanding achievement that the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,77%, an increase of 5,81% compared to 2013. the report notes that the centre reviewed the implementation of its internal control standards (ics) in 2014 and notes with satisfaction that three ics have been almost fully implemented and the others have been fully implemented. i find the centre's developed and launched infectious disease atlas on its website to be a useful tool. through this, the centre has published data on four diseases at union level as well as international data. i agree with the encouragement for the centre to continue this project.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014, has concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had satisfied itself that they were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important to highlight that the fees collected in 2014 from applications for registration of biocidal products from the agency's annual revenue covered only 17% of the expenditure for the tasks set out in the biocidal products regulation. however, its revenues from fees and charges related to activities related to the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals (reach) and the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (clp) were higher than planned, amounting to eur 27,8 million. the agency has fulfilled 98% of the recommendations on manpower and devotes 78% of its staff to operational activities, and has provided satisfactory solutions to both the transparency and conflicts of interest concerns raised by parliament. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european chemicals agency has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the report approves the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i voted in favour of the report for all these reasons. the report notes that the final budget of the european chemicals agency (the agency) for the financial year 2014 was eur 114 112 193, representing an increase of 6,37% compared to 2013, according to the financial statements. the report notes that the agency's procedures for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest cover both external and internal staff. notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2014 were based on a comparison of the agency's annual accounts with the european food safety authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, which are updated annually; due to its unique situation, the agency's management is not exclusively financed by the eu budget, but also receives significant revenue from, for example, the fees for registration of biocidal products or other chemical substances. in addition, revenue from fees and charges related to activities related to the classification, labelling and packaging (clp) of substances and mixtures is a significant item. i find it useful that the agency has decided to apply the conflict of interest procedure to members of its informal working groups, specialised groups and discussion forums, which requires an annual declaration of interest and opens each meeting with an oral declaration.
in writing. ‒ according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 114 112 193, an increase of 6,3% compared to 2013. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur highlights that the european environment agency has reduced its staff in accordance with the principles of sound financial management as a condition for the discharge for the implementation of the general budget for the financial year 2014. at the same time, it is important to expect the agency to apply more strict confidentiality and exclusion measures in relation to public procurement and to carry out background checks in all cases. the consistent application of the exclusion criteria is necessary to exclude from participation in public procurement all companies for which the conflict of interests arises. this is essential for the strict protection of the financial interests of the union. in addition to the substantive remarks above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european environment agency has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the report describes that the final budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 52 573 071, an increase of 6,70% compared to 2013. it notes, however, that only 76,81% of the agency's budget comes from the union budget and that this increase is mainly related to the operational expenditure of the strategic actions. as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i have therefore voted in favour of the report providing for a discharge. the report notes that the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,19% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 87,19%. the agency has reduced its staff in accordance with the principles of the interinstitutional agreement on sound financial management. in this context, i consider it important to note that cuts should be treated with caution as they could have a detrimental impact on the implementation of the main parts of the agency's multiannual work programme.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries control agency has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the executive director of the office be relieved of his responsibility for the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the final annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency are the same as those annexed to the court of auditors' report. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the need for the authority to apply strict confidentiality and exclusion measures in relation to public procurement. in any case, it shall carry out background checks to exclude the companies concerned from participation in the event of a conflict of interest. this is linked to the recurring problem with the agency's work, which is that the authority must be free from actual or perceived conflicts of interest, in particular in the economic sectors it regulates. unfortunately, the authority has still not been able to clarify these allegations, nor does it apply the two-year withdrawal period that would apply to all material interests related to the regulated sectors. the authority has not been able to make a comprehensive improvement in the prevention and fight against corruption, as it has not even developed an anti-fraud strategy. because of the serious deficiencies mentioned above, i voted against granting the exemption.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. he's asking the agency to step up its enforcement of the conflict of interest. the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the audit, and the court of auditors' report also found the agency's financial statements to be satisfactory. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. he's asking the agency to step up its enforcement of the conflict of interest. the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the audit, and the court of auditors' report also found the agency's financial statements to be satisfactory. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. he's asking the agency to step up its enforcement of the conflict of interest. the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation, and the court of auditors' report also found the authority's financial statements to be adequate. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. he's asking the agency to step up its enforcement of the conflict of interest. the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the audit, and the court of auditors' report also found the agency's financial statements to be satisfactory. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. he's asking the agency to step up its enforcement of the conflict of interest. the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the audit, and the court of auditors' report also found the agency's financial statements to be satisfactory. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. he's asking the agency to step up its enforcement of the conflict of interest. the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the audit, and the court of auditors' report also found the agency's financial statements to be satisfactory. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european food safety authority has presented its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that the parliament give the executive director of the authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the report states that according to the financial statements, the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014 was eur 79 701 222, representing an increase of 2,11% compared to 2013. this budget shall be entirely derived from the union budget. as the court of auditors stated in its report on the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had satisfied itself that the authority's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, i voted in favour. the report notes that following the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2014, the budget implementation rate was 99,69%, representing an increase of 0,86% compared to 2013. i consider it important that the authority has implemented a project to improve the efficiency and regularity of transaction processing through a central strategy, the introduction of planning, monitoring and reporting procedures and structures, and centralised financial and procurement processes and structures. the report highlights that this project will enable the authority to perform its task more efficiently and to reduce the time and manpower required for the procedures.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had satisfied itself that the authority's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute for gender equality in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it considers the recruitment and selection procedures, the centralised public procurement system and the conflict of interest policy, which allowed public access to cvs and declarations of interests, to be appropriate. the court of auditors confirmed that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 present a reliable and true picture of the institute's financial position as at 31 december 2014 in all material respects and that the institute's operations and cash flows for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the financial regulation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute for gender equality. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it considers the recruitment and selection procedures, the centralised public procurement system and the conflict of interest policy, which allowed public access to cvs and declarations of interests, to be appropriate. the court of auditors confirmed that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 present a reliable and true picture of the institute's financial position as at 31 december 2014 in all material respects and that the institute's operations and cash flows for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the financial regulation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute for gender equality in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it considers the recruitment and selection procedures, the centralised public procurement system and the conflict of interest policy, which allowed public access to cvs and declarations of interests, to be appropriate. the court of auditors confirmed that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 present a reliable and true picture of the institute's financial position as at 31 december 2014 in all material respects and that the institute's operations and cash flows for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the financial regulation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute for gender equality in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it considers the recruitment and selection procedures, the centralised public procurement system and the conflict of interest policy, which allowed public access to cvs and declarations of interests, to be appropriate. the court of auditors confirmed that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 present a reliable and true picture of the institute's financial position as at 31 december 2014 in all material respects and that the institute's operations and cash flows for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the financial regulation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute for gender equality in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it considers the recruitment and selection procedures, the centralised public procurement system and the conflict of interest policy, which allowed public access to cvs and declarations of interests, to be appropriate. the court of auditors confirmed that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 present a reliable and true picture of the institute's financial position as at 31 december 2014 in all material respects and that the institute's operations and cash flows for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the financial regulation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. i voted to grant the exemption.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute for gender equality in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it considers the recruitment and selection procedures, the centralised public procurement system and the conflict of interest policy, which allowed public access to cvs and declarations of interests, to be appropriate. the court of auditors confirmed that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2014 present a reliable and true picture of the institute's financial position as at 31 december 2014 in all material respects and that the institute's operations and cash flows for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the financial regulation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the european institute for gender equality has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the director of the institute discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european institute for gender equality, which approved the closure of the institute's accounts for 2014. my decision was confirmed by the court's finding in its report that the institute's accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. like the rapporteur, i welcome the fact that the institute achieved 95% of its planned results in 2014. it is also satisfied that the institute has applied for its public contracts as widely as possible, while in negotiated procedures for low-value contracts it has set the number of invited tenderers in such a way as to ensure a balance between publicity and proportionality. i am also pleased to see the fruitful cooperation between the institute and the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. in agreement with the report, i consider that the objectives and tasks of the institute require that it should be maintained as a separate legal entity within the institutional framework of the union.
in writing. ‒ the institute was set up to contribute to and strengthen the promotion of gender equality, in particular by mainstreaming gender equality in all eu policies and related national policies, to combat discrimination based on sex and to raise awareness of gender equality among eu citizens. i voted in favour of the relevant document.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report welcomes the strengthening of purchasing capacity at company level, the introduction of clear definitions of the responsibilities of officials and staff. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report welcomes the strengthening of purchasing capacity at company level, the introduction of clear definitions of the responsibilities of officials and staff. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report welcomes the strengthening of purchasing capacity at company level, the introduction of clear definitions of the responsibilities of officials and staff. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report welcomes the strengthening of purchasing capacity at company level, the introduction of clear definitions of the responsibilities of officials and staff. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report welcomes the strengthening of purchasing capacity at company level, the introduction of clear definitions of the responsibilities of officials and staff. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report welcomes the strengthening of purchasing capacity at company level, the introduction of clear definitions of the responsibilities of officials and staff. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report welcomes the strengthening of purchasing capacity at company level, the introduction of clear definitions of the responsibilities of officials and staff. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report welcomes the strengthening of purchasing capacity at company level, the introduction of clear definitions of the responsibilities of officials and staff. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that the parliament give the executive director of the authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014, which approved the authority's accounts for 2014. it is to be welcomed that following the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2014, the budget implementation rate was 100%, which ensured that the authority achieved its planned objective. i also support the part of the report that calls on the commission to introduce in the white paper for the second quarter of 2016 and in the legislative proposal for 2017 a financing system that ensures that the authority's independence is beyond doubt in the future. however, i share the rapporteur's regret that the authority has not always been able to adequately inform the eu legislator of all the details of its ongoing work and that it has been leaked to third parties before the eu legislator. i therefore support the call in the report for the authority to increase transparency in the future, to publish all its meetings with third parties and to provide timely and detailed information on the activities of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014, has found that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the committee decided to grant the discharge at its meeting in early april, and in its judgment all questions concerning the management of the institute in 2014 were clarified. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the committee decided to grant the discharge at its meeting in early april, and in its judgment all questions concerning the management of the institute in 2014 were clarified. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the committee decided to grant the discharge at its meeting in early april, and in its judgment all questions concerning the management of the institute in 2014 were clarified. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the committee decided to grant the discharge at its meeting in early april, and in its judgment all questions concerning the management of the institute in 2014 were clarified. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the committee decided to grant the discharge at its meeting in early april, and in its judgment all questions concerning the management of the institute in 2014 were clarified. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the committee decided to grant the discharge at its meeting in early april, and in its judgment all questions concerning the management of the institute in 2014 were clarified. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european institute of innovation and technology has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the director of the institute discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the budget of the institute in budapest for 2014. the financial statements show that the budget of the institute for the financial year 2014 was eur 233 115 437, representing an increase of 65,54% compared to 2013. the increase is mainly due to the broadening of the portfolio and the range of beneficiaries and the change of the founding regulation. the total union contribution to the institute's 2014 budget was eur 169 807 303, representing an increase of 81,69% compared to 2013. even with such a drastic increase in the use of resources, the court found that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report states that, as a result of the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2014, the budget implementation rate was 94,13%, representing a decrease of 2,84% compared to 2013, which in my view is acceptable in the context of the reorganisation of the tasks. i consider it a risky element to state in the report that since the establishment of the institute in 2009, staff turnover and the level of management have been unstable. i think it's necessary to examine the background of the ongoing exchange. in order to reduce the frequency of staff turnover, the institute has taken measures and in autumn 2014 the institute introduced an evaluation and reclassification system that provides better career prospects for its staff and strengthens the middle management level.
in writing. ‒ according to the financial statements, the total eu contribution to the institute's 2014 budget was eur 169 807 303, an increase of 81,69% compared to 2013. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014, i consider it important to point out that the court's report has indicated that the agency's fee rules set deadlines for the collection of fees from applicants and for payments by the agency to the competent authorities of the member states. the report shows that the agency did not respect these deadlines in the majority of the transactions examined by the court. the agency had originally planned to implement e-administration and further automation of these procedures by the end of 2015, but failed to do so. i consider it important to underline that the agency should take all further necessary steps to ensure that it can fully meet its pharmacovigilance obligations and report on the measures taken to do so, as the agency launched a pilot project on adaptive authorisation in march 2014 which was not supported by either parliament or the council. during the financial year 2014, the agency's own budget implementation rate reached 94,32%, representing a decrease of 2,44%. the implementation rate of payment appropriations was 82,30%, corresponding to a reduction of 3,98%. due to the shortcomings outlined above, i did not vote in favour of granting the exemption.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions in the accounts were legal and regular. the joint undertaking has made significant progress compared to the previous financial year and has been able to complete an action plan that has delivered clear and concrete results in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest and enhancing transparency. the panel decided to grant the waiver at its april meeting. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european medicines agency has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report as the court found that it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 282 474 000, an increase of 12.29% compared to 2013, according to the financial statements, but only 12.53% of the agency's budget comes from the eu budget. the budget revenue of the agency, as provided for in the financial regulation, is composed of cash from union contributions and fees for marketing authorisation applications for medicinal products, post-authorisation activities and various administrative activities. i am pleased that the agency published its revised policy on the handling of conflicts of interest statements by members of the scientific committee and experts in november 2014, which entered into force in january 2015. the agency has thereby defined the notion of direct and indirect interests and has required all experts to identify in our annual conflict of interest declaration all direct and indirect interests in their case.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has submitted its final annual report for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the director of the centre be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the centre's final accounts are the same as those annexed to the court's report, so there is no obstacle to the clearance of accounts being approved. i welcome, as does the rapporteur, the fact that the final annual accounts of the centre for 2014 contain detailed information on the corrective actions taken by the centre following the comments and recommendations made by the court of auditors, the budgetary authority and the commission's internal audit service. at the same time, i agree with the report and urge that the declarations of interest of the director and senior officials of the centre be made available as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its audits that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its audits that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its audits that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its audits that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its audits that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its audits that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its audits that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its audits that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for network and information security in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for network and information security in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for network and information security in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for network and information security in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european network and information security agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and whether the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for network and information security in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for network and information security in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for network and information security in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for network and information security has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the union's contribution to the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 8 820 666, representing an increase of 0.05% compared to 2013. i supported the related document.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european railway agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the european court of auditors concluded that it has obtained sufficient assurance from its audits that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european railway agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european court of auditors concluded that it has obtained sufficient assurance from its audits that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european railway agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european court of auditors concluded that it has obtained sufficient assurance from its audits that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european railway agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european court of auditors concluded that it has obtained sufficient assurance from its audits that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european railway agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european court of auditors concluded that it has obtained sufficient assurance from its audits that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european railway agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european court of auditors concluded that it has obtained sufficient assurance from its audits that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european railway agency has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european securities and markets authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the competent committee of the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found the operations on which the authority's annual accounts are based to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the 2014 accounts. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out its financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european securities and markets authority in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the competent committee of the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found the operations on which the authority's annual accounts are based to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the 2014 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european securities and markets authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the competent committee of the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found the operations on which the authority's annual accounts are based to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the 2014 accounts. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european securities and markets authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the competent committee of the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found the operations on which the authority's annual accounts are based to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the 2014 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european securities and markets authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the competent committee of the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found the operations on which the authority's annual accounts are based to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the 2014 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european securities and markets authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the competent committee of the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found the operations on which the authority's annual accounts are based to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european securities and markets authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the competent committee of the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found the operations on which the authority's annual accounts are based to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the 2014 accounts. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european securities and markets authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the competent committee of the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found the operations on which the authority's annual accounts are based to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the 2014 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european securities and markets authority has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that the parliament give the executive director of the authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of esma's 2014 budget. as the final annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority are the same as those set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, the closure of the authority's accounts for the financial year 2014 is not affected. the authority has a key role to play in promoting a common supervisory regime in the single market, in order to ensure financial stability and to make financial markets in the union more harmonised, transparent, efficient and secure. however, it is regrettable that, as the report pointed out, the authority has failed to inform the eu legislator in a proper and comprehensive manner of the details of its ongoing work. i agree with the rapporteur that the authority should avoid in future cases where member states or third parties have access to information which has not been shared with parliament.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training foundation in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european training foundation in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training foundation in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training foundation in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training foundation in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training foundation in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training foundation in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training foundation in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european training foundation has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, the council, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, recommended to parliament that the director of the foundation be relieved of his responsibility for the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european training foundation. the court of auditors found the foundation's budget to be legal and regular in all material respects and that it presented the financial situation as at 31 december 2014 in a realistic manner. i welcome the fact that the foundation has shown a very high degree of effectiveness in its three strategic objectives: strengthening the policy analysis of evidence-based vocational training; modernising vocational training systems with a view to a lifelong learning approach; increasing the relevance of vocational training for the labour market and economic and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had satisfied itself that the foundation's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014 was eur 59 380 000, representing a decrease of 3,2% compared to 2013. i supported the related document.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for safety and health at work. the court of auditors found that the financial statements for 2014 were in accordance with the financial position of the agency and that the operations and cash flows for the year were in accordance with the agency's financial regulation. the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for safety and health at work. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the financial statements for 2014 were in accordance with the financial position of the agency and that the operations and cash flows for the year were in accordance with the agency's financial regulation. the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for safety and health at work. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the financial statements for 2014 were in accordance with the financial position of the agency and that the operations and cash flows for the year were in accordance with the agency's financial regulation. the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for safety and health at work. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the financial statements for 2014 were in accordance with the financial position of the agency and that the operations and cash flows for the year were in accordance with the agency's financial regulation. the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for safety and health at work. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the financial statements for 2014 were in accordance with the financial position of the agency and that the operations and cash flows for the year were in accordance with the agency's financial regulation. the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for safety and health at work. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the financial statements for 2014 were in accordance with the financial position of the agency and that the operations and cash flows for the year were in accordance with the agency's financial regulation. the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for safety and health at work. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the financial statements for 2014 were in accordance with the financial position of the agency and that the operations and cash flows for the year were in accordance with the agency's financial regulation. the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for safety and health at work has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014, found that the transactions underlying the trust and the trust are legal and regular. in addition to the accuracy of the annual report, the report rightly acknowledges the agency's positive results in implementing the european union's strategic framework for safety and health at work 2014-2020. however, in agreement with the rapporteur, i propose that the report should pay greater attention in future to the rules on transparency, accountability and integrity.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had satisfied itself that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the euratom supply agency has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the director-general of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the main activity of the foundation is to contribute to the creation of better living and working conditions in the community. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the main activity of the foundation is to contribute to the creation of better living and working conditions in the community. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the main activity of the foundation is to contribute to the creation of better living and working conditions in the community. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the main activity of the foundation is to contribute to the creation of better living and working conditions in the community. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the main activity of the foundation is to contribute to the creation of better living and working conditions in the community. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the main activity of the foundation is to contribute to the creation of better living and working conditions in the community. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the main activity of the foundation is to contribute to the creation of better living and working conditions in the community. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the main activity of the foundation is to contribute to the creation of better living and working conditions in the community. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, the council, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, recommended to parliament that the director of the foundation be relieved of his responsibility for the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014 was eur 20 774 000, representing an increase of 0,73% compared to 2013. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european judicial cooperation unit has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the administrative director of the unit be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of the european judicial cooperation unit. in considering the findings of the report, i took into account the increasing role of eurojust in the joint action against serious organised crime, and in recent years eu legislation has provided a modified framework for this, including through the european public prosecutor's office directive and legislation aimed at organisational and operational reform of eurojust. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a legislative proposal on the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2014, stated that it had satisfied itself that the annual accounts of eurojust were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european police office has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the director of the office be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of europol's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of the european police office. in considering the submission, i took into account that the activities and tasks of europol are fundamentally assessed in the context of the refugee crisis and terrorism, and that the comments made on the 2014 budget should now be assessed in this light. i believe that ensuring the conditions for the effective and efficient functioning of europol also deserves particular attention because, in the light of the phenomena of cross-border serious crime, european citizens' expectations of the eu and of this office in particular have increased.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for fundamental rights in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances during its audits that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european union agency for fundamental rights in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances during its audits that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for fundamental rights in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances during its audits that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for fundamental rights in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances during its audits that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for fundamental rights in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances during its audits that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights has presented its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 as regards the european court of auditors. in considering the findings of the report, i took into account the important role of the fundamental rights agency in safeguarding the values and principles on which the european union is founded, and in upholding the fundamental human and civil rights as commonly recognised in the charter of fundamental rights. as a person and as a hungarian politician, i look forward to the more effective and consistent implementation of these tasks, given the increasing challenges and violations of fundamental rights by governments and authorities in the member states, which unfortunately also affect my own country. i therefore support the provision of the organisational and budgetary conditions for this work for the agency.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance during its audits on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance during its audits on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance during its audits on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance during its audits on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance during its audits on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance during its audits on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance during its audits on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance during its audits on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's decision on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of frontex. in considering the proposal, it is important to bear in mind that the refugee crisis has made frontex perhaps the most politically important agency of the union and put the protection of the eu's external borders at the top of the political agenda. these developments will lead to a transformation of frontex which will significantly extend its legal basis, its overall organisation, its tasks and powers and, accordingly, its budget. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation granted to the sampled exporting producers.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, on the basis of its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, notes that there has been a significant improvement in both the ex-ante and ex-post controls of expenditure claimed by the cooperating countries under the grant agreements. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it emphasises the need to further reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. it proposes to strengthen communication and cooperation and to make better use of synergies between the agencies and parliament. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of the report in both the committee and the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european gnss agency has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ according to the financial statements, the union contribution to the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 369 058, representing an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of artemis in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and a comprehensive set of rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of artemis in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and a comprehensive set of rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of artemis in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and a comprehensive set of rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of artemis in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and a comprehensive set of rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of artemis in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and a comprehensive set of rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of artemis in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and a comprehensive set of rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of artemis in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and a comprehensive set of rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of artemis in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and a comprehensive set of rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. council regulation (eu) no 561/2014 of 6 may 2014 established the ecsel joint undertaking by merging the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking in june 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the period from 1 january to 26 june 2014, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in its report, the committee on budgetary control recommended that parliament postpone its decision on this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research roadmap for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the eu's competitiveness and sustainability and to develop new markets and societal applications. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for clean sky in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it considers it important to strengthen a comprehensive policy of non-conflict. the final audit report concluded that the financial and regularity reviews did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the 2014 closure procedure for the clean sky programme. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it considers it important to strengthen a comprehensive policy of non-conflict. the final audit report concluded that the financial and regularity reviews did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for clean sky in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it considers it important to strengthen a comprehensive policy of non-conflict. the final audit report concluded that the financial and regularity reviews did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for clean sky in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it considers it important to strengthen a comprehensive policy of non-conflict. the final audit report concluded that the financial and regularity reviews did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for clean sky in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it considers it important to strengthen a comprehensive policy of non-conflict. the final audit report concluded that the financial and regularity reviews did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for clean sky in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it considers it important to strengthen a comprehensive policy of non-conflict. the final audit report concluded that the financial and regularity reviews did not reveal any serious deficiencies. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for clean sky in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it considers it important to strengthen a comprehensive policy of non-conflict. the final audit report concluded that the financial and regularity reviews did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for clean sky in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it considers it important to strengthen a comprehensive policy of non-conflict. the final audit report concluded that the financial and regularity reviews did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, which clears the accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 reflect, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and the results of the financial and cash flow events for the year, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation. however, as the report points out, i would also urge that in future the court of auditors should present the annual financial performance, the state of implementation of multiannual projects and the results and their implementation in greater detail.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is of the opinion that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 reflect the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 in all material respects and in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 contains too many general observations rather than useful, specific comments; the report therefore calls for an audit that focuses more on the annual financial performance. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that it has been finding shortcomings in the legality and regularity of the annual budget for several years. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest, but these need to be further developed. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out its financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that it has been finding shortcomings in the legality and regularity of the annual budget for several years. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest, but these need to be further developed. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that it has been finding shortcomings in the legality and regularity of the annual budget for several years. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest, but these need to be further developed. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that it has been finding shortcomings in the legality and regularity of the annual budget for several years. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest, but these need to be further developed. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that it has been finding shortcomings in the legality and regularity of the annual budget for several years. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest, but these need to be further developed. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that it has been finding shortcomings in the legality and regularity of the annual budget for several years. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest, but these need to be further developed. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that it has been finding shortcomings in the legality and regularity of the annual budget for several years. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest, but these need to be further developed. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2014. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that it has been finding shortcomings in the legality and regularity of the annual budget for several years. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest, but these need to be further developed. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2014 financial situation was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. council regulation (eu) no 561/2014 of 6 may 2014 established the ecsel joint undertaking by merging the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking in june 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the period from 1 january to 26 june 2014, the council recommended that parliament give the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in its report, the committee on budgetary control recommended that parliament postpone its decision on this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research roadmap to develop core competences in nanoelectronics in a variety of application areas. i supported the related document.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the fact that the court of auditors found the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and that the underlying financial transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the fact that the court of auditors found the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and that the underlying financial transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the fact that the court of auditors found the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and that the underlying financial transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the fact that the court of auditors found the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and that the underlying financial transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the fact that the court of auditors found the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and that the underlying financial transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the fact that the court of auditors found the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and that the underlying financial transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the fuel cell and hydrogen joint undertaking has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the executive director of the joint undertaking be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the report states that the fuel cell and hydrogen joint undertaking was established in may 2008 by council regulation (ec) no 521/2008 as a public-private partnership for the period ending on 31 december 2017 to focus on the development of market applications and thereby facilitate further industrial efforts to accelerate the uptake of fuel cell and hydrogen technology. i voted in favour of the discharge report, although it says that the court's report is based on too many general observations rather than practical, concrete ones. the european parliament therefore calls for an audit that focuses more on the annual financial performance, the state of implementation of multiannual projects including a clear presentation of the implementation of the budget for the current and previous years and on results and implementation. the report notes that according to the 2014 annual activity report, the budget implementation rate for all sources of funding reached 98,48% for commitment appropriations by the end of the year, but considers that these indicators do not provide a true assessment of performance in the absence of a clear separation of information on the implementation of the seventh framework programme and horizon 2020. in view of all this, i therefore consider that, in addition to granting the exemption, a serious further investigation is necessary to analyse the activities of the company.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' 2014 annual report states that fch's 2014 annual report reflects, in all material respects and in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules, the financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the outcome of the economic events that took place in the year ended 31 december 2014. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur is concerned that the performance of operational ex ante controls on the payment of project costs has not been properly documented. it further notes that the ex-ante verification carried out by the joint undertaking's scientific officers did not identify and comment on the status of the projects (in progress, with deficiencies, suspended/cancelled) and their concrete results (no reservations, reservations requiring clarification, significant reservations). it points out that in several cases, payments were made without an official list of results adopted by the scientific officer. it is also important to note that, in the absence of a clear separation of information on the implementation of the seventh framework programme and horizon 2020, the use and commitment indicators for the operational activity do not provide a true assessment of performance. in this connection, the rapporteur mentions as a major weakness the fact that the commitment appropriations and payment appropriations for these two programmes are not separately included in the annual activity report. the evaluation of the joint undertaking's performance indicators has thus become opaque and unverifiable. it is important to highlight one sentence in the report in which the rapporteur summarises that there is no information on contributions in kind and in cash, which does not even ensure the minimum conditions for anti-corruption and transparent operation of the joint undertaking. in view of the above, i have voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions in the accounts were legal and regular. the joint undertaking has made significant progress compared to the previous financial year and has been able to complete an action plan that has delivered clear and concrete results in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest and enhancing transparency. the panel decided to grant the waiver at its april meeting. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions in the accounts were legal and regular. the joint undertaking has made significant progress compared to the previous financial year and has been able to complete an action plan that has delivered clear and concrete results in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest and enhancing transparency. the panel decided to grant the waiver at its april meeting. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions in the accounts were legal and regular. the joint undertaking has made significant progress compared to the previous financial year and has been able to complete an action plan that has delivered clear and concrete results in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest and enhancing transparency. the panel decided to grant the waiver at its april meeting. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions in the accounts were legal and regular. the joint undertaking has made significant progress compared to the previous financial year and has been able to complete an action plan that has delivered clear and concrete results in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest and enhancing transparency. the panel decided to grant the waiver at its april meeting. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions in the accounts were legal and regular. the joint undertaking has made significant progress compared to the previous financial year and has been able to complete an action plan that has delivered clear and concrete results in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest and enhancing transparency. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions in the accounts were legal and regular. the joint undertaking has made significant progress compared to the previous financial year and has been able to complete an action plan that has delivered clear and concrete results in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest and enhancing transparency. the panel decided to grant the waiver at its april meeting. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the 2014 closure procedure, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court stated that it had satisfied itself that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions in the accounts were legal and regular. the joint undertaking has made significant progress compared to the previous financial year and has been able to complete an action plan that has delivered clear and concrete results in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest and enhancing transparency. the panel decided to grant the waiver at its april meeting. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the second joint undertaking for the innovative medicines research initiative has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the executive director of the imi joint undertaking be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of the imi budget for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the innovative medicines research initiative joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process, with the long-term aim of making innovative medicines more effective and safer for the pharmaceutical industry. the report concludes that the court's report is based on too many general observations rather than practical, concrete observations. it therefore requests that an audit be carried out that focuses more on the annual financial performance, the state of implementation of multiannual projects (including a clear presentation of the implementation of the budget for the current and previous years) and on results and implementation. the report also notes that the court of auditors considers that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking are in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer, reflecting the financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the results of the financial and monetary events for the year. that's why i voted to support the report to grant the exemption.
in writing. ‒ the innovative medicines research initiative joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process, with the long-term aim of making innovative medicines more effective and safer for the pharmaceutical industry. i supported the related report.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's management in 2014 was required in order to provide iter with the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's management in 2014 was required in order to provide iter with the final accounts. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's management in 2014 was required in order to provide iter with the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's management in 2014 was required in order to provide iter with the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's management in 2014 was required in order to provide iter with the final accounts. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that it had not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting in early april, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's management in 2014 was required in order to provide iter with the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the director of the joint undertaking be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. in its report, the committee on budgetary control recommended that parliament postpone its decision on this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter for the financial year 2014, states that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 are true to the essential facts and reflect the financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the results of the economic and financial events that took place during the year, in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules. i accepted it with a smile.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and the underlying financial transactions to be legal and regular in all material respects. highlights the essential role of the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research in the context of the sesar project. notes that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and that the operations and cash flows are in line with the financial regulation; notes that the joint undertaking's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors and that the annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors; the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2014, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the sesar joint undertaking. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and the underlying financial transactions to be legal and regular in all material respects. highlights the essential role of the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research in the context of the sesar project. notes that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and that the operations and cash flows are in line with the financial regulation; notes that the joint undertaking's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors and that the annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors; the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and the underlying financial transactions to be legal and regular in all material respects. highlights the essential role of the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research in the context of the sesar project. notes that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and that the operations and cash flows are in line with the financial regulation; notes that the joint undertaking's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors and that the annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors; the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and the underlying financial transactions to be legal and regular in all material respects. highlights the essential role of the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research in the context of the sesar project. notes that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and that the operations and cash flows are in line with the financial regulation; notes that the joint undertaking's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors and that the annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors; the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and the underlying financial transactions to be legal and regular in all material respects. highlights the essential role of the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research in the context of the sesar project. notes that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and that the operations and cash flows are in line with the financial regulation; notes that the joint undertaking's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors and that the annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors; the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and the underlying financial transactions to be legal and regular in all material respects. highlights the essential role of the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research in the context of the sesar project. notes that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and that the operations and cash flows are in line with the financial regulation; notes that the joint undertaking's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors and that the annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors; the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and the underlying financial transactions to be legal and regular in all material respects. highlights the essential role of the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research in the context of the sesar project. notes that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and that the operations and cash flows are in line with the financial regulation; notes that the joint undertaking's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors and that the annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors; the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. in the plenary vote, i voted for the granting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the 2014 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to be reliable and the underlying financial transactions to be legal and regular in all material respects. highlights the essential role of the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research in the context of the sesar project. notes that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and that the operations and cash flows are in line with the financial regulation; notes that the joint undertaking's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors and that the annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors; the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the special committee decided at its meeting in early april to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2014. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the sesar joint undertaking has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2014. on 12 february 2016, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council recommended to parliament that the director of the joint undertaking be relieved of his or her responsibility for the implementation of the budget of sesar for the financial year 2014. the committee on budgetary control recommended in its report that parliament should grant this discharge. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the sesar joint undertaking was set up in february 2007 to manage the single european sky air traffic services research programme (sesar), which aims to modernise air traffic services in europe. i supported the related document.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european investment bank highlights that in 2014 the bank financed 285 000 smes, protecting 3.6 million jobs. this is certainly an important result. notes that the financial, economic and social crisis of 2008 resulted in a severe investment gap and a particularly high unemployment rate, especially among young people, together with a prolonged stagnation of the european economy; it addresses one of the most serious disproportions, namely that since 2008 the eu has ceased to function as a 'convergence machine' and has taken the opposite direction, with the result that the differences between regions and member states have increased sharply, and the social and economic inequalities within the union have become increasingly severe, hampering our economic life and further hindering social cohesion. the report's virtue is that it confronts the greatest challenges, not ignoring the failures in the areas in question. on these grounds, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report mainly summarises the conclusions of the eib's investment programme, outlines the main community objectives supported by the eib and the areas where the bank has been successful, such as stimulating economic recovery, supporting small businesses, supporting innovation, and tackling youth unemployment. the european parliament shall draw up a report each year on the basis of the annual report of the european investment bank. the committee on budgetary control supported the adoption of the report by a large majority, and the group also voted in favour of the draft report at the meeting of the people's party. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. the report mainly summarises the conclusions of the eib's investment programme, outlines the main community objectives supported by the eib and the areas where the bank has been successful, such as stimulating economic recovery, supporting small businesses, supporting innovation, and tackling youth unemployment. the european parliament shall draw up a report each year on the basis of the annual report of the european investment bank. the committee on budgetary control supported the adoption of the report by a large majority, and the group also voted in favour of the draft report at the meeting of the people's party. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report mainly summarises the conclusions of the eib's investment programme, outlines the main community objectives supported by the eib and the areas where the bank has been successful, such as stimulating economic recovery, supporting small businesses, supporting innovation, and tackling youth unemployment. the european parliament shall draw up a report each year on the basis of the annual report of the european investment bank. the committee on budgetary control supported the adoption of the report by a large majority, and the group also voted in favour of the draft report at the meeting of the people's party. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. the report mainly summarises the conclusions of the eib's investment programme, outlines the main community objectives supported by the eib and the areas where the bank has been successful, such as stimulating economic recovery, supporting small businesses, supporting innovation, and tackling youth unemployment. the european parliament shall draw up a report each year on the basis of the annual report of the european investment bank. the committee on budgetary control supported the adoption of the report by a large majority, and the group also voted in favour of the draft report at the meeting of the people's party. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report mainly summarises the conclusions of the eib's investment programme, outlines the main community objectives supported by the eib and the areas where the bank has been successful, such as stimulating economic recovery, supporting small businesses, supporting innovation, and tackling youth unemployment. the european parliament shall draw up a report each year on the basis of the annual report of the european investment bank. the committee on budgetary control supported the adoption of the report by a large majority, and the group also decided to vote in favour of the draft report at the meeting of the people's party group. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report mainly summarises the conclusions of the eib's investment programme, outlines the main community objectives supported by the eib and the areas where the bank has been successful, such as stimulating economic recovery, supporting small businesses, supporting innovation, and tackling youth unemployment. the european parliament shall draw up a report each year on the basis of the annual report of the european investment bank. the committee on budgetary control supported the adoption of the report by a large majority. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report mainly summarises the conclusions of the eib's investment programme, outlines the main community objectives supported by the eib and the areas where the bank has been successful, such as stimulating economic recovery, supporting small businesses, supporting innovation, and tackling youth unemployment. the european parliament shall draw up a report each year on the basis of the annual report of the european investment bank. the committee on budgetary control supported the adoption of the report by a large majority, and the group also voted in favour of the draft report at the meeting of the people's party. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report mainly summarises the conclusions of the eib's investment programme, outlines the main community objectives supported by the eib and the areas where the bank has been successful, such as stimulating economic recovery, supporting small businesses, supporting innovation, and tackling youth unemployment. the european parliament shall draw up a report each year on the basis of the annual report of the european investment bank. the committee on budgetary control supported the adoption of the report by a large majority, and the group also voted in favour of the draft report at the meeting of the people's party. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. the eib's support represents only 3% of eu investment, which is not significant for the eu's economic policy as a whole. this can be seen from the fact that only 250 000 smes have been financed, whereas there are 22 million smes in the union, employing 90 million people in total. so the 3.6 million jobs that are protected are a tiny fraction of the jobs that are in smes. in fact, the report notes that the aid is predominantly given to the core countries rather than the more needy periphery. overall, the report is welcome as it provides a true and comprehensive picture of the otherwise objectionable activities of the eib.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank has submitted its annual activity report for 2014, its financial report for 2014 and its statistical report for 2014, and the eib's audit committee has also prepared its annual report for 2014. the committee on budgetary control concludes in its report that the eib's main task as the eu's bank is to provide financial support for projects that contribute to the balanced development of the internal market, social, economic and territorial cohesion and thus to strengthening european integration and job creation, and that it therefore has a key role to play in boosting the eu's competitiveness. the report sets out the key requirements for the eib and suggests that parliament should expect the eib to favour investments in economic recovery and productivity, policies to promote youth employment, innovation and sme development, support for environmental sustainability, economic and social cohesion and convergence, and to be consistent with the objectives of the european fund for strategic investments. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eib's 2014 annual report. in addition to acknowledging the bank's many achievements, the report also details and provides guidance on the challenges still to be overcome. like the rapporteur, i welcome the eib's performance in financing smes, which has protected 3.6 million jobs in the eu. the eib's 'jobs for young people - investing in skills' initiative should also be acknowledged for its implementation in 2014. i also encourage further investment in education, skills development and youth employment, as youth unemployment is still dramatic. the introduction in 2014 of new innovative tools to support action on climate change is also commendable. however, i share the rapporteur's concern that support for renewable energy capacity building was concentrated in the majority of cases in the five largest economies in the union, and that a similar concentration is observed in the energy efficiency sector. in line with the rapporteur's opinion, i urge that future investments in renewable energy capacity building in the new member states be gradually increased. in addition, the adoption of the revised eib framework for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is particularly welcome. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any evidence that the bank has engaged in any form of illegal activity in the past.
in writing. ‒ as the eu's bank, the eib's main task is to provide financial support for projects that contribute to the balanced development of the internal market, social, economic and territorial cohesion and thus to strengthening european integration and job creation, and therefore plays a key role in enhancing the eu's competitiveness. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn all attacks against hospitals and schools occurring in armed conflicts around the world, with patients, students, medical and teaching staff, humanitarian aid workers, children and family members becoming targets and victims. these are the most cruel acts against humans and must be seriously punished. the right to health is a human right, and with today’s vote we call for the parties involved in armed conflicts to guarantee the availability, accessibility, acceptability and quality of medical services during the conflicts. i support today’s vote stressing that international condemnations must be followed by independent investigations and genuine accountability for all actors involved.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution on this subject was tabled by the alde, ppe, ecr, verts/ale, gue/ngl and s&d groups. the six groups reached an agreement and worked out a joint compromise draft. i voted in favor of the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution condemning the violation of international humanitarian law and calling for international condemnation of attacks on hospitals, schools and other civilian targets. i support the motion for a resolution calling on the member states of the union to strongly urge the un security council to use all the means at its disposal to enforce international humanitarian law. i also agree with the call to dispense with the right of veto in the security council when it comes to decisions on humanitarian matters and to increase respect for international legal standards for the protection of humanitarian workers. the unsc should ensure that acts constituting violations of those standards are consistently investigated and that persons suspected of having committed those acts are held accountable for their actions. like the motion, i condemn the participation of several partners of the union and its member states in serious violations of international humanitarian law. finally, in line with the motion, i believe that the eu should use all bilateral means at its disposal to persuade its partners to comply with international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ the international community is witnessing a harrowing trend of attacks on hospitals and schools in armed conflict zones around the world, along with unprecedented levels of denial of humanitarian aid and access, executions of civilians and humanitarian personnel, detention in inhumane conditions, and the hostage-taking and forced enslavement of civilian populations. i voted in favour of the s&d group's proposal.
in writing. ‒ full transparency is the basis for citizens' trust in the eu institutions and contributes to awareness of rights deriving from the eu legal order and to knowledge and awareness of the eu decision-making process, including the proper implementation of administrative and legislative procedures. the report highlights the shortcomings that have emerged in the tripartite interinstitutional consultations. on the one hand, the mechanisms under which conciliation meetings are organised are not transparent and, on the other hand, there is concern that the agreements reached in such conciliation meetings are not or are only known belatedly by the citizens and by the members themselves, who have to decide on the outcome of the conciliation in the parliamentary committee concerned. in the case of delegated acts, the lack of participation of co-legislators within the european supervisory authorities (eba, eiopa, esma) does not ensure transparency. there would be a need for a single register of all secondary law, which would be the task of the commission. as the report highlights a number of shortcomings and contains a reasoned opinion which is not only unfavourable to the commission but also to parliament and the council, i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ article 15 of the eu treaty sets out the rules on access to documents by the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the detailed rules are laid down in regulation no 1049/2001. i believe that the above rules generally guarantee the necessary transparency. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i support citizens' access to documents and the transparency of our institutions. at the same time, i believe that many of the elements in the report now before the vote will add to the bureaucratic burden on the administration, make many procedures more difficult, reduce efficiency and make interinstitutional agreements impossible. it therefore does not add value for european citizens. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ article 15 of the eu treaty sets out the rules on access to documents by the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the detailed rules are laid down in regulation no 1049/2001. we believe that the above rules generally guarantee the necessary transparency. the fidesz people's party delegation supports citizens' access to documents and the transparency of our institutions. however, we believe that many of the elements in the report now before us will add to the bureaucratic burden on the administration, make many procedures more difficult, reduce efficiency and make interinstitutional agreements impossible. it therefore does not add value for european citizens. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ article 15 of the eu treaty sets out the rules on access to documents by the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the detailed rules are laid down in regulation no 1049/2001. we believe that the above rules generally guarantee the necessary transparency. the fidesz people's party delegation supports citizens' access to documents and the transparency of our institutions. however, we believe that many of the elements in the report now before us will add to the bureaucratic burden on the administration, make many procedures more difficult, reduce efficiency and make interinstitutional agreements impossible. it therefore does not add value for european citizens. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ article 15 of the eu treaty sets out the rules on access to documents by the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the detailed rules are laid down in regulation no 1049/2001. we believe that the above rules generally guarantee the necessary transparency. the fidesz people's party delegation supports citizens' access to documents and the transparency of our institutions. however, we believe that many of the elements in the report now before us will add to the bureaucratic burden on the administration, make many procedures more difficult, reduce efficiency and make interinstitutional agreements impossible. it therefore does not add value for european citizens. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ article 15 of the eu treaty sets out the rules on access to documents by the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the detailed rules are laid down in regulation no 1049/2001. we believe that the above rules generally guarantee the necessary transparency. the fidesz people's party delegation supports citizens' access to documents and the transparency of our institutions. however, we believe that many of the elements in the report now before us will add to the bureaucratic burden on the administration, make many procedures more difficult, reduce efficiency and make interinstitutional agreements impossible. it therefore does not add value for european citizens. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ article 15 of the eu treaty sets out the rules on access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the detailed rules are laid down in regulation no 1049/2001. we believe that the above rules generally guarantee the necessary transparency. the fidesz delegation supports the citizens' access to documents and the transparency of our institutions. however, we believe that many of the elements in the report now before us will add to the bureaucratic burden on the administration, make many procedures more difficult, reduce efficiency and make interinstitutional agreements impossible. it therefore does not add value for european citizens. i abstained from the vote as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ article 15 of the eu treaty sets out the rules on access to documents by the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the detailed rules are laid down in regulation no 1049/2001. we believe that the above rules generally guarantee the necessary transparency. the fidesz people's party delegation supports citizens' access to documents and the transparency of our institutions. however, we believe that many of the elements in the report now before us will add to the bureaucratic burden on the administration, make many procedures more difficult, reduce efficiency and make interinstitutional agreements impossible. it therefore does not add value for european citizens. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ article 15 of the eu treaty sets out the rules on access to documents by the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the detailed rules are laid down in regulation no 1049/2001. we believe that the above rules generally guarantee the necessary transparency. the fidesz people's party delegation supports citizens' access to documents and the transparency of our institutions. however, we believe that many of the elements in the report now before us will add to the bureaucratic burden on the administration, make many procedures more difficult, reduce efficiency and make interinstitutional agreements impossible. it therefore does not add value for european citizens. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs calls for full transparency in the european union's institutions and, to this end, for full exercise of the fundamental right of access to eu documents, as protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties. urges the revision of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 of the european parliament and of the council of 30 may 2001 regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents and the extension of its scope to all european institutions not currently covered by it, such as the european council, the european central bank, the court of justice and all eu bodies and agencies; i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report 2014/15 summarising the state and problems of public access to eu documents, with particular regard to the issue and the importance of compliance with relevant community legislation for the confidence of eu citizens in the institutions and the functioning of the union. the report also highlights problems that are still present, but which should be resolved in the near future, in particular as regards the transparency and accessibility of documents and decisions arising from trilogues, the lack of coordination of the rules on documents in the various eu institutions and the need to modernise the nearly 15-year-old directive on public access to documents. i consider it important to deal with them in order to counter the political attacks on the eu's credibility, including those against the citizens of my own member state, and i will follow them closely in my further work in parliament.
in writing. ‒ the report finds that access to information held by the eu institutions remains a barrier for citizens, due to the lack of a common interinstitutional approach based on full transparency, communication and direct democracy, which is intended to facilitate citizens' access to documents. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ household services, family employment and home care offer the potential to improve economic and social cohesion in the european union. the household and care sector and its professionalisation can create jobs and growth. this could be part of a social innovation model where the reconciliation of work and family life is more effectively ensured. i believe that it is extremely important to provide special training for people working with the elderly and children, so that they have access to quality jobs and better working conditions, including formal contracts and training. this leads to better social recognition and quality employment. it is important to define the rights and obligations of those concerned, creating legal certainty for both workers in this sector and their potential employers. however, as i am in favour of introducing the general framework for the professionalisation of domestic and care work but not of proposing new legislative instruments on domestic and care work, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ household services, family employment and home care offer the potential to improve economic and social cohesion in the european union, as the professionalisation of the household and care sector can create jobs and growth and be part of a social innovation model where the reconciliation of work and family life is more effectively ensured. i consider it extremely important to provide specific training for people working with the elderly and children in order to promote quality employment leading to quality jobs and better working conditions, including formal contracts, access to training and better social recognition. it is important to define the rights and obligations of those concerned, creating legal certainty for both workers in this sector and their potential employers. however, as i am in favour of introducing the general framework for the professionalisation of domestic and care work but not of proposing new legislative instruments on domestic and care work, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ household services, family employment and home care offer the potential to improve economic and social cohesion in the european union, as the professionalisation of the household and care sector can create jobs and growth and be part of a social innovation model where the reconciliation of work and family life is more effectively ensured. i consider it extremely important to provide specific training for people working with the elderly and children in order to promote quality employment leading to quality jobs and better working conditions, including formal contracts, access to training and better social recognition. it is important to define the rights and obligations of those concerned, creating legal certainty for both workers in this sector and their potential employers. however, as i am in favour of introducing the general framework for the professionalisation of domestic and care work but not of introducing new legislative instruments on domestic and care work, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ household services, family employment and home care offer the potential to improve economic and social cohesion in the european union, as the professionalisation of the household and care sector can create jobs and growth and be part of a social innovation model where the reconciliation of work and family life is more effectively ensured. i consider it extremely important to provide specific training for people working with the elderly and children in order to promote quality employment leading to quality jobs and better working conditions, including formal contracts, access to training and better social recognition. it is important to define the rights and obligations of those concerned, creating legal certainty for both workers in this sector and their potential employers. however, as i am in favour of introducing the general framework for the professionalisation of domestic and care work but not of proposing new legislative instruments on domestic and care work, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ household services, family employment and home care offer the potential to improve economic and social cohesion in the european union, as the professionalisation of the household and care sector can create jobs and growth and be part of a social innovation model where the reconciliation of work and family life is more effectively ensured. i consider it extremely important to provide specific training for people working with the elderly and children in order to promote quality employment leading to quality jobs and better working conditions, including formal contracts, access to training and better social recognition. it is important to define the rights and obligations of those concerned, creating legal certainty for both workers in this sector and their potential employers. however, as i am in favour of introducing the general framework for the professionalisation of domestic and care work but not of proposing new legislative instruments on domestic and care work, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ household services, family employment and home care offer the potential to improve economic and social cohesion in the european union, as the professionalisation of the household and care sector can create jobs and growth and be part of a social innovation model where the reconciliation of work and family life is more effectively ensured. i consider it extremely important to provide specific training for people working with the elderly and children in order to promote quality employment leading to quality jobs and better working conditions, including formal contracts, access to training and better social recognition. it is important to define the rights and obligations of those concerned, creating legal certainty for both workers in this sector and their potential employers. however, as i am in favour of introducing the general framework for the professionalisation of domestic and care work but not of proposing new legislative instruments on domestic and care work, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. there is a recipe that is always applicable: with false promises of modernity, destroy everything that works, people, lives, create new problems with it, and then create complex rules that can solve the problem-pile in small part. this report is a long and bureaucratic attempt to solve something, but it seems to be unsuccessful. in the midst of a shattered society, broken families, no future, and liberal models, there is no way out.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on female domestic workers and carers in the eu. i agree with the report's call for member states to ratify ilo convention 189 as soon as possible and to apply it fully. the household and care sector which is predominantly female in the eu is characterised by a lack of representation, irregular working hours and a lack of safety at work. 2.5 million people live in such precarious environments in the union today. to change this, i support the recognition of the profession and value of domestic and care work as genuine work, and also the inclusion of those working in the sector under labour, health, social assistance and insurance and anti-discrimination legislation, recognising their social and economic contribution.
in writing. ‒ the issue of domestic workers and carers is first and foremost a matter of respect for the dignity of people and, in this context, of women. although the report suggests measures to protect women, and therefore when we refer to workers we mean female workers, the measures proposed here should of course apply to all workers in the sector, as dignity is not a gender privilege, although women may be more frequently and severely abused in this area. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation has revolutionised and fundamentally changed the way people obtain and provide information, communicate, interact, learn and work. this will create new opportunities for training and participation in the labour market, open up new perspectives for flexible working arrangements and work-life balance for both women and men. these developments offer a major opportunity to strengthen women's participation, allowing access to information and knowledge through non-traditional means. the active participation of women in the information society also contributes to improving the social and economic conditions of society and the competitiveness of the union. however, the report addresses a number of issues that go beyond the report's competence or that infringe member states' competences. in view of all this, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation has revolutionised and fundamentally changed the way people get and deliver information, communicate, interact, learn and work, creating new opportunities for training and participation in the labour market, opening up new perspectives on flexible working arrangements and work-life balance for both women and men. these developments offer a major opportunity to strengthen women's participation, allowing access to information and knowledge through non-traditional means. the active participation of women in the information society also contributes to improving the social and economic conditions of society and the competitiveness of the union. however, because of a number of issues which were included in the report and which go beyond the report's competence or which infringe member states' competences, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation has revolutionised and fundamentally changed the way people get and deliver information, communicate, interact, learn and work, creating new opportunities for training and participation in the labour market, opening up new perspectives on flexible working arrangements and work-life balance for both women and men. these developments offer a major opportunity to strengthen women's participation, allowing access to information and knowledge through non-traditional means. the active participation of women in the information society also contributes to improving the social and economic conditions of society and the competitiveness of the union. however, because of a number of issues that were included in the report which go beyond the report's competence or which infringe member states' competences, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation has revolutionised and fundamentally changed the way people get and deliver information, communicate, interact, learn and work, creating new opportunities for training and participation in the labour market, opening up new perspectives on flexible working arrangements and work-life balance for both women and men. these developments offer a major opportunity to strengthen women's participation, allowing access to information and knowledge through non-traditional means. the active participation of women in the information society also contributes to improving the social and economic conditions of society and the competitiveness of the union. however, because of a number of issues which were included in the report and which go beyond the report's competence or which infringe member states' competences, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation has revolutionised and fundamentally changed the way people get and deliver information, communicate, interact, learn and work, creating new opportunities for training and participation in the labour market, opening up new perspectives on flexible working arrangements and work-life balance for both women and men. these developments offer a major opportunity to strengthen women's participation, allowing access to information and knowledge through non-traditional means. the active participation of women in the information society also contributes to improving the social and economic conditions of society and the competitiveness of the union. however, due to a number of issues that were included in the report and which go beyond the report's competence or infringe member states' competences, i abstained as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party during the final vote.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation has revolutionised and fundamentally changed the way people get and deliver information, communicate, interact, learn and work, creating new opportunities for training and participation in the labour market, opening up new perspectives on flexible working arrangements and work-life balance for both women and men. these developments offer a major opportunity to strengthen women's participation, allowing access to information and knowledge through non-traditional means. the active participation of women in the information society also contributes to improving the social and economic conditions of society and the competitiveness of the union. however, because of a number of issues which were included in the report and which go beyond the report's competence or which infringe member states' competences, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on gender equality and empowerment of women in the digital age. i agree with the statement that internet access is now a basic service that everyone needs, regardless of gender and age. information and communication technologies offer numerous opportunities to strengthen women's social participation and to promote their rights, freedoms and gender equality. therefore, i share the rapporteur's view that it is of the utmost importance that the commission and the member states, taking advantage of the digital agenda for europe and the digital single market strategy, should specifically promote the integration of women and disadvantaged groups in the technical and telecommunications professions, increasing their visibility in the digital arena. in order to reduce and close the digital skills gap, gender equality should be ensured at all levels of education. i also think it is right that the report emphasises the adoption of measures to protect against violence and crime in the digital environment. one of these measures could be the renewal and expansion of the commission's safer internet programme.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation has revolutionised and fundamentally changed the way people get and deliver information, communicate, interact, learn and work, creating new opportunities for participation in public and political debate, training and the labour market, opening up new horizons for independent living and harbouring huge economic potential within and outside the european union. i supported him with my vote.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. although i have no problem with your suggestion, i would rather ask you if you are satisfied with the way the report examines the role of women in this whole area, because in my country, hungary, for example, it seems that in difficult terrain you always manage to carry out a project if you start with women first. i mean, education and all that.
mr president in its introductory article 3 of the treaty on european union, it identifies the task of promoting territorial cohesion. well, let's look at the results of the last budget cycle in this light. the gap between the so-called centre countries and the periphery, above all the former socialist countries, has not diminished but increased. however, cohesion funds are 8.4% less in this cycle. that speaks for itself. in this context, the committee's proposal to ask the commission to facilitate the implementation of operational programmes in order to avoid suspension of payments is to be welcomed. however, we must distinguish between problems caused by excessive bureaucracy and a well-founded suspicion of corrupt use.
mr president in the debate on eu cohesion policy, we cannot ignore the fact that in some member states, eu funds are not used to promote the well-being of people, not to develop the economy, but to promote the well-being and enrichment of a few people close to the government. this is also the case in hungary, where corruption cases have forced the european commission to suspend 10 of the 15 eu operational programmes in hungary over the past few years. in some of these cases, such as the corruption case of the hungarian prime minister's son-in-law, the eu anti-fraud office has even launched an investigation. it's a lot of money, a lot of punishment. in the end, it may be necessary to pay a fine of up to huf 700 billion, representing 10% of eu funds. however, this fine will be paid by hungarian taxpayers and not by those who fraudulently obtained the funds. we therefore ask the commission to speed up the investigation of these cases and to develop legislation which will result in the punishment of criminals rather than the taxpayers of a member state.
in writing. a significant part of the european union's territory is covered by mountain regions, which offer many opportunities to achieve the union's objectives on employment, cohesion and environmental protection. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the importance of developing tourism in tackling the problems of unemployment, migration and ageing that are affecting the mountain region. today, 25 million europeans work in the sector, with a three-fold higher proportion of those under 24 than in any other sector, yet tourism is not considered a quality career. changing this trend requires, in particular, encouraging career opportunities and addressing issues of remuneration. the commission should develop concrete proposals to improve access to education (especially the ict platform), lifelong learning and mobility in mountain regions. in order to make mountain areas more attractive for economic activities, the commission and the member states should cooperate in channelling resources from the cohesion and investment funds to the regions. this should be addressed as a matter of priority in order to reduce youth unemployment and increase the efficiency of smes.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to go. although i agree with what you said about the energy union and the opportunities that can be exploited or should be exploited, i feel that, in addition to all the good words, we should perhaps try to make the question of the energy mix not a matter of national competence but of coordination, because this kind of thing breaks up the whole field a little, despite all the good intentions. what do you think of that?
mr president the way the european commission relates to nord stream 2 compared to south stream is a typical case of double standards. the construction of south stream would have provided an alternative route to avoid ukraine for several european and central european countries, but the objections were voiced: based on competition law, bureaucratic, liberal principles, until the end result was that it failed. commissioner cañete, in answer to my written question, said that the problem with south stream was that it would have been diversified by the route. what about north stream 2? it's not diverting resources or routes. then why is it possible? obviously, the big difference is between the joint action of the four visegrad prime ministers and angela merkel. you made your decision based on that. what was not allowed to these countries, is possible for germany.
madam president, for the countries of central and eastern europe, the expansion of nord stream does not mean either diversification or an improvement in their competitiveness. and i'll go further than that, if this project is successful, on those gas pipeline interconnections that we've been working together to build to better connect the fragmented central and eastern european gas market to the much more liquid western european gas market, russian gas will be imported. it is therefore doubtful whether capacity will remain on the interconnectors for alternative transport. this would be a step backwards from the diversification objective. the central and eastern european countries are also not expected to benefit economically, as cross-border transport can significantly increase the price of the energy carrier. i ask the european commission to work towards the energy union objectives and to comply with eu legislation, in particular the third energy package. this is in the interest of the european citizens.
in writing. the common climate and energy policy objectives, the cop21 objectives and the principle of diversifying energy supply also call into question the need for nord stream 2. the project is also a source of concern because of its impact on both energy security and diversification of energy supply. in addition to the policy concerns, i would like to draw attention to an apparent double standard: in 2014, the european commission claimed that gazprom's business behaviour in the central and eastern european gas market constituted an abuse of a dominant position and infringed eu antitrust rules. he also called for the third energy cluster to stop the construction of the south stream. this position was appropriate from both an energy and a security policy perspective. however, now that germany wants to build a pipeline, gazprom suddenly appears as a reliable market player and, indeed, by referring to the specific rules for undersea pipelines, the commission may even consider the planned pipeline to be in line with the third energy package. strictly speaking, this may be justified, but it must be seen that the authorisation of a project which also affects the gas market in the cee region will also have a fundamental impact on the region's relationship with the union, as it will be assessed by the member states - not without reason - as a double standard. in the countries of the region, which are already in conflict with the union, this will have implications for the assessment of european integration as a whole.
in writing. the latest commission report continued to reveal deficiencies in several important areas concerning china's market economy status. lack of transparency, significant state interference in the economy and disadvantage to foreign enterprises, lack of adequate protection of intellectual property, and not to mention the lack of guarantees regarding workers' rights and environmental protection. therefore, although china has made significant steps towards market economy functioning, a level playing field is still not ensured. consequently, measures to exclude chinese dumping and to protect the european market are not only legitimate but also necessary. the situation is particularly serious in the steel industry, where unequal competition can ultimately destroy european businesses. i was convinced of this myself when i was briefed a few weeks ago at the danube railway plant in new york city. it is therefore particularly important to involve trade unions and industry representatives in the further negotiations. in this area in particular, it is true that the member states alone are powerless, and that only joint action by the european union can protect jobs and guarantee the proper functioning of the market. parliament must therefore take a firm and clear position on this matter.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity, madam president, and thank you to the member for taking my question. you said that the commission and the other institutions have the same position every year. i think there's a new element here, and i'm asking you, what do you see in this as potential? in fact, about half the eu budget is spent in tax havens in europe. shouldn't we be embracing this instead of playing old records all the time? thank you very much.
in writing. in recent years, youth unemployment in the eu has fallen by 25%, which is a significant achievement, but further efforts are needed. on the one hand, there are significant differences between member states, and on the other hand, there is still room for improvement in the use of existing financial instruments. the complexity of the problem is that we have to think in both short-term and long-term solutions. young people who have just graduated would need jobs immediately, but the considerable sums spent on education and training may not be paid until later. the current €6 billion youth guarantee is a useful initiative, which could be increased after a periodic review of existing experience. i believe that we need to ensure that young people trained in the eu can use their knowledge here and, where possible, take up jobs that are commensurate with their qualifications.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the internal market of the european union should be protected against external dumping, as this helps to maintain and create jobs. it is therefore appropriate to explain in sufficient detail the cases in which aid is to be considered to exist, the principles on the basis of which it is to be considered countervailable (in particular in the case of the granting of targeted aid) and the criteria for calculating the amount of countervailable aid. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's efforts to simplify and make eu legislation more transparent. the aim is to make them clearer and more accessible to citizens, thus further expanding the possibilities for exercising the rights granted to them. however, in order to ensure clarity and transparency, it is necessary to codify acts which have been amended several times. i therefore accept the opinion of the working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission on the codification of protection against subsidised imports from non-eu countries and i vote in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council a regulation on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. the advisory working party of the legal services of the parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal in question contains a simple consolidation of the existing texts without any substantial amendment. in its report, the committee on legal affairs therefore recommends that parliament agree to the commission's proposal, as amended in line with the recommendations of the advisory working group. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which adopted the amendment to the codified council regulation on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community. the amendment follows a proposal by an advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which proposes to delete one word from the regulation. since the necessary correction does not substantially alter the existing text, i saw no obstacle to the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is about the consolidation of the european parliament and council regulations on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. since the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission is of the opinion that the proposal in question contains a simple consolidated version of the existing texts without substantial amendments, the report recommends that the european parliament adopt the commission's report. since the protection of eu traders against dumped goods from third countries is a matter of interest and the current text is merely a consolidation of the existing rules, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the internal market of the european union should be protected against external dumping, as this helps to maintain and create jobs. it is therefore appropriate to explain in sufficient detail the cases in which aid is to be considered to exist, the principles on the basis of which it is to be considered countervailable (in particular in the case of the granting of targeted aid) and the criteria for calculating the amount of countervailable aid. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's efforts to simplify and make eu legislation more transparent. the aim is to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens, thus further expanding the possibilities for exercising the rights granted to them. however, in order to ensure clarity and transparency, it is necessary to codify acts which have been amended several times. i therefore accept the opinion of the working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission on the codification of protection against dumped imports from non-eu countries and i vote in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. the european market has been protected against dumped imports by a number of regulations, but we all have doubts about its effectiveness. the report is welcome as it sets out a uniform system of european parliament and council regulations on protection against dumped imports from non-eu countries, with a little more transparency to protect the interests of eu traders. the eu always falls into the same trap: first the smart guys don't listen to the warnings, then they try to solve something with aggressive regulation, with little success.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council a regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. the advisory working party of the legal services of the parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal in question contains a simple consolidation of the existing texts without any substantial amendment. in its report, the committee on legal affairs therefore recommends that parliament agree to the commission's proposal, as amended in line with the recommendations of the advisory working group. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the eu. the proposal, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, consolidates the existing texts into a simple, uniform structure without substantially altering them. as existing texts are not amended, i can support the amended proposal in line with the recommendations of the working group.
in writing. ‒ the eu's conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia in west africa is a major achievement. this is the first such agreement between the two parties. the active conservation of atlantic tuna and other fish stocks is a new chapter in the environmental history of the country, which has an exclusive economic zone of 246 152 km2. i am particularly pleased that the european union is making a significant contribution to reducing illegal, unreported fishing in liberian waters and to introducing the various techniques of sustainable fishing and aquaculture to liberians. hungary, as a country with experience and specific expertise in freshwater fisheries and aquaculture, can play a major role in boosting freshwater fisheries and aquaculture in liberia. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu's conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia in west africa is a major achievement. this is the first such agreement between the two parties. the active conservation of atlantic tuna and other fish stocks is a new chapter in the environmental history of the country, which has an exclusive economic zone of 246 152 km2. i am particularly pleased that the european union is making a significant contribution to reducing illegal, unreported fishing in liberian waters and to introducing the various techniques of sustainable fishing and aquaculture to liberians. hungary, as a country with experience and specific expertise in freshwater fisheries and aquaculture, can play a major role in boosting freshwater fisheries and aquaculture in liberia. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in agreement with the rapporteur on the draft resolution of parliament calling for the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia. through agreements with third countries, the eu provides financial and technical support for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in the exclusive economic zones of partner countries. in this light, i myself consider that the agreement is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities. it also strengthens cooperation with west africa, which has important tuna fishing areas, in general. similar sectoral support measures may give hope for the growing role of local economies.
in writing. ‒ the eu's conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia in west africa is a major achievement. this is the first such agreement between the two parties. protecting the stocks of atlantic tuna and other fish species opens a new chapter in the environmental history of the country, which has an exclusive economic zone of 246 152 km2. the european union is making a significant contribution to reducing illegal, unreported fishing in liberian waters and to introducing the various techniques of sustainable fishing and aquaculture to liberians. hungary, as a country with experience in freshwater fisheries and aquaculture, can play a major role in boosting freshwater fisheries and aquaculture in liberia.
in writing. ‒ the eu's conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia in west africa is a major achievement. this is the first such agreement between the two parties. the active conservation of atlantic tuna and other fish stocks is a new chapter in the environmental history of the country, which has an exclusive economic zone of 246 152 km2. i am particularly pleased that the european union is making a significant contribution to reducing illegal, unreported fishing in liberian waters and to introducing the various techniques of sustainable fishing and aquaculture to liberians. hungary, as a country with experience and specific expertise in freshwater fisheries and aquaculture, can play a major role in boosting freshwater fisheries and aquaculture in liberia. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the eu funds are used to support activities carried out by european fishing vessels in liberian coastal waters, in a manner analogous to the well-established 'fair trade' approach, to promote mutually beneficial objectives. this is a good recommendation because it gives europe's population access to high-quality seafood, which is essential for a healthy diet, and it also ensures that fishing is regulated to exploit fish stocks in a sustainable way.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the european union has concluded a number of fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries, providing financial and technical assistance in exchange for fishing rights within the exclusive economic zones of the partner countries. on 20 june 2014, the commission, acting on a mandate from the council, entered into negotiations with the government of liberia for the conclusion of the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and the implementation protocol between the european union and the republic of liberia. the tuna fisheries agreement and protocol were initialled by the parties on 5 june 2015 and are valid for five years and may be tacitly renewed. the protocol provides for a financial contribution from the union of eur 715 000 for the first year, eur 650 000 for the second, third and fourth years and eur 585 000 for the fifth year. the council intends to adopt a decision on the ratification of the agreement and the protocol, subject to parliament's consent. in its report, the committee on fisheries stresses that the agreement and the implementation protocol are consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and bring significant mutual benefits to both parties, and therefore proposes that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement and the protocol annexed thereto. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the eu's conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia in west africa is a major achievement. this is the first such agreement between the two parties. the active conservation of atlantic tuna and other fish stocks is a new chapter in the environmental history of the country, which has an exclusive economic zone of 246 152 km2. i am particularly pleased that the european union is making a significant contribution to reducing illegal, unreported fishing in liberian waters and to introducing the various techniques of sustainable fishing and aquaculture to liberians. hungary, as a country with experience and specific expertise in freshwater fisheries and aquaculture, can play a major role in boosting freshwater fisheries and aquaculture in liberia. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ under the new eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, eu vessels can catch 281 500 tonnes of fish a year off the coast of mauritania, 12 500 tonnes less than under the expiring agreement. this significant reduction is justified as some fish stocks have been severely depleted and therefore time should be allowed for their recovery. the trend towards the european union being forced to limit its sea fishing appropriately is evident not only in the current fisheries partnership agreements but also in others. the european supply of fish is therefore suffering from a steady and significant decline in the amount of sea fish caught. the eu should therefore pay greater attention to freshwater fish farming. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. it is important to give freshwater aquaculture greater prominence and to ensure that it receives the maximum possible eu support. the budget of the common fisheries policy beyond 2020 will need to be reformed in line with this guideline. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ under the new eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, eu vessels can catch 281 500 tonnes of fish a year off the coast of mauritania, 12 500 tonnes less than under the expiring agreement. this significant reduction is justified as some fish stocks have been severely depleted and therefore time should be allowed for their recovery. the trend towards the european union being forced to limit its sea fishing appropriately is evident not only in the current fisheries partnership agreements but also in others. the european supply of fish is therefore suffering from a steady and significant decline in the amount of sea fish caught. the eu should therefore pay greater attention to freshwater fish farming. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. i therefore want to see freshwater aquaculture given greater prominence and increased eu support. the budget for the cfp post-2020 will have to be reformed along these lines. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ similarly, the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and mauritania strengthens fisheries cooperation with third countries. through agreements with third countries, the eu provides financial and technical support for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in the exclusive economic zones of partner countries. i therefore support the call for the signing on behalf of the union of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution to be granted to mauritania for a period of four years. in agreement with the rapporteur, it should be noted that the new protocol represents a significant step forward compared to the previous one. the new commitments by mauritania on transparency and priority access for the european fleet are particularly welcome.
in writing. ‒ under the new eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, eu vessels can catch 281 500 tonnes of fish a year off the coast of mauritania, 12 500 tonnes less than under the expiring agreement. this significant reduction is justified as certain fish stocks have been severely depleted and need to be allowed time to recover. the trend towards the european union being forced to limit its sea fishing appropriately is evident not only in the current fisheries partnership agreements but also in others. the european supply of fish is therefore suffering from a steady and significant decline in the amount of sea fish caught. the eu needs to pay more attention to freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in many cases, it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. the budget of the common fisheries policy beyond 2020 will need to be reformed in line with this guideline.
in writing. ‒ under the new eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, eu vessels can catch 281 500 tonnes of fish a year off the coast of mauritania, 12 500 tonnes less than under the expiring agreement. this significant reduction is justified as some fish stocks have been severely depleted and therefore time should be allowed for their recovery. the trend towards the european union being forced to limit its sea fishing appropriately is evident not only in the current fisheries partnership agreements but also in others. the european supply of fish is therefore suffering from a steady and significant decline in the amount of sea fish caught. the eu should therefore pay greater attention to freshwater fish farming. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. i therefore want to see freshwater aquaculture given greater prominence and increased eu support. the budget for the cfp post-2020 will have to be reformed along these lines. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european community concluded its first fisheries agreement with mauritania in 1989. the current partnership agreement entered into force in 2006 and was renewed in 2012 for a period of two years until the end of 2014. on 10 july 2015, the parties initialled a new protocol, which is also applied provisionally from 16 november 2015, allowing union fishing vessels to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of four years. the financial compensation to be paid by the european union in return for access to the exclusive fishing zone of mauritania by european vessels shall be eur 55 million per year, to be supplemented by a financial contribution of eur 16,5 million to be paid over the period of the agreement to promote the sustainable development of the fishing industry and the environmental protection of marine and coastal protected areas. the council intends to take a decision on the signing of the protocol on behalf of the eu, subject to parliament's consent. the committee on fisheries stresses in its report that the protocol represents a significant step forward and welcomes the new commitments by mauritania on transparency and priority access for the european fleet, and therefore recommends that parliament give its consent to the signing of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ under the new eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, eu vessels can catch 281 500 tonnes of fish a year off the coast of mauritania, 12 500 tonnes less than under the expiring agreement. this significant reduction is justified as some fish stocks have been severely depleted and therefore time should be allowed for their recovery. the trend towards the european union being forced to limit its sea fishing appropriately is evident not only in the current fisheries partnership agreements but also in others. the european supply of fish is therefore suffering from a steady and significant decline in the amount of sea fish caught. the eu should therefore pay greater attention to freshwater fish farming. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. i therefore want to see freshwater aquaculture given greater prominence and increased eu support. the budget for the cfp post-2020 will have to be reformed along these lines. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the global telecommunications network plays an important role between eu member states and their trading partners, which is why i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). the purpose of the agreement is to promote and enhance cooperation between the parties in the field of civil global satellite navigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the agreement with korea on a civilian global navigation satellite system. i hereby authorise the commission to adopt, on behalf of the eu, a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. the republic of korea has adequate capabilities in space technology and applications and is actively using satellite navigation services in various sectors, including transport, fleet management, and scientific and geodetic applications. the eu can only benefit from the expertise available to korea. such cooperation agreements could foster cooperation in space research, facilitate the exchange of information and generally deepen bilateral relations with korea.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). the purpose of the agreement is to promote and enhance cooperation between the parties in the field of civil global satellite navigation.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). the purpose of the agreement is to promote and enhance cooperation between the parties in the field of civil global satellite navigation.
madam president, please. the european union regularly promises change with these different, revolutionary new policies, and i've seen that in the seven years i've been here. what they have in common is that it will never, ever be better for the people of europe, and especially not for the people of the so-called new member states, who are considered second class. the latest keyword in cohesion policy is community-led local development. and what's interesting is that the obstacle to that is exactly what the european union is doing in the member states, which happens to be in hungary. how can we talk about community-led local development when the land has been stolen, there is no more local hungarian land, it has been taken over by foreigners. and then you need successful small businesses, but they don't exist because they've been destroyed by global corporations. there are no communities, and there are no local leaders, because the intelligent, well-educated people have already left their homelands for the european union. thank you very much.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on two new territorial development instruments under the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, integrated territorial investment and community-led local development. the report recalls that greater flexibility and better integration are needed not only for eu programmes but also for national and regional policies in general. it also stresses that by guaranteeing a more general approach to governance reform, it can ensure that eu funds are not directed to national and regional policies within a parallel system, but rather embedded in a broader ambition to achieve sustainable economic outcomes. the two proposed measures were already subject to reservations by the proposers. for example, the committee on regional development has noted that the idea is complex and that some member states and regions consider the instrument unnecessary, as consultation with local actors is ongoing. in view of this, the two proposed new instruments do not provide added value and, as they are new instruments, there is no local expertise available, which may cause delays and implementation difficulties. in addition, the emergence of parallel administrative structures, lack of flexibility, commitment of funding for the entire financial planning period and lack of coordination with other development strategies may cause implementation problems. however, the strengthening of subsidiarity can be seen as a positive element. all things considered, i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ in the development of the new territorial development instruments of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, strategies need to be defined in the initial stages of the implementation process in cooperation with regional and local actors, in particular at the level of vocational and specialised training, as well as technical and financial support. this will facilitate effective partnership cooperation between regions, member states and the eu. i would like to draw attention to the fact that actions implemented under these instruments should take into account the priorities of local actors and be consistent with the overall objectives of the operational programmes and with other eu, national, regional and local development strategies and smart specialisation strategies. in addition, flexibility must be ensured. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ as one of the main objectives of the european union is territorial cohesion, the instruments for the financial planning period 2014-2020 will therefore, in addition to the existing developments, adopt an integrated approach that takes into account local needs. two new instruments will be introduced under the european structural and investment funds: community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti). they are likely to receive 5% of the cohesion policy budget. based on preliminary feedback, iti will be applied in 20 member states and clld in 18. the difficulties of the clld stem mainly from the emphasis and increased responsibility of local actors. member states already using leader have a significant experience advantage. the challenges facing the iti are related to the implementation of tasks by local bodies with limited expertise, the resulting delays and the lack of coordination between other development structures. the problems with both instruments are the increase in administrative burdens, the lack of confidence of member states in local influence on territorial development, the limited budget of the funds and the integration of several funds. development strategies should give priority to addressing pressing issues such as youth unemployment, the lack of resources for smes or adaptation to a new demographic situation. an important task for the future is the analysis by the commission of the use of the two instruments. the need for the earmarking of resources in the post-2020 cohesion policy regulation will be determined on the basis of effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on territorial development in the plenary. the report focuses on two instruments, the community-led local development (clld) and the integrated territorial investments (iti) instruments. the rapporteur regrets that the two instruments are not being fully exploited by the member states and analyses the challenges that hinder the use of these instruments. the bottom-up approach, involving local actors in decision-making, is essential, but consultation at local level must have real added value and must not lead to a significant increase in an already complex and complex administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ as territorial cohesion is one of the union's fundamental objectives, the 2014-2020 financial period will place greater emphasis on integrated and local approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion. in this context, community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti) instruments can provide a solution to better financing and to strengthening synergies between local and public actors. this approach helps to implement territorial strategies. however, local actors often lack the capacity to develop and implement development strategies for their own area. these actors need support at both national and union level to ensure that these instruments can deliver the desired impacts. in order to achieve a holistic approach, the possibilities for financing from several funds provided for in the new regulations should be exploited to the fullest extent possible. the report is a step in the right direction, and i welcome the rapporteur's efforts and approve it with a positive vote.
in writing. ‒ the report on territorial development focuses on two instruments, clld (community-led local development) and iti (integrated territorial investments). the rapporteur highlights that the two instruments are not being fully exploited by the member states and analyses the challenges that hinder their use. the bottom-up approach, involving local actors in decision-making, is essential, but consultation at local level must have real added value and must not lead to a significant increase in an already complex and complex administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on territorial development in the plenary. the report focuses on two instruments, the community-led local development (clld) and the integrated territorial investments (iti) instruments. the rapporteur regrets that the two instruments are not being fully exploited by the member states and analyses the challenges that hinder their use. the bottom-up approach, involving local actors in decision-making, is essential, but consultation at local level must have real added value and must not lead to a significant increase in an already complex and complex administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ territorial cohesion is one of the fundamental objectives of the union. in order to achieve this, two new instruments were introduced under the european structural and investment funds in the financial planning period 2014-2020: community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti). the clld is a new tool for subregional use, based on the leader experience of community-led local development and a bottom-up approach. the iti helps to implement integrated territorial strategies by allowing the linking of funding from several priority axes of one or more operational programmes. the report by the regional development committee reviews the challenges encountered so far in the application of the two new instruments and makes recommendations on how to respond to these challenges. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on territorial development in the plenary. the report focuses on two instruments, the community-led local development (clld) and the integrated territorial investments (iti) instruments. the rapporteur regrets that the two instruments are not being fully exploited by the member states and analyses the challenges that hinder the use of these instruments. the bottom-up approach, involving local actors in decision-making, is essential, but consultation at local level must have real added value and must not lead to a significant increase in an already complex and complex administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree that the new territorial development instruments of cohesion policy make a significant contribution to increasing economic, social and territorial cohesion and reducing social inequalities. territorial cohesion as one of the union's fundamental objectives has given greater emphasis to integrated and local needs in the financial planning period 2014-2020. two new instruments were introduced: community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti). in my view, the member states that joined in 2004 needed a massive learning process to implement the leader programme of that time. we should be at the point where, alongside community development, job creation and economic development are becoming increasingly important. however, i regret to see that in many cases in hungary these resources are distributed purely for party political interests and not in accordance with the real needs of local actors. another problem, in my view, is that the implementation of local development systems is often complex, incoherent and centrally managed. i am confident that hungary can also move away from top-down approaches. i agree with the rapporteur that a bottom-up approach and the involvement of local actors are essential to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and that different levels of governance can in many cases seriously hamper the implementation of the territorial approach.
in writing. ‒ territorial cohesion is one of the fundamental objectives of the union, enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. in this light, the new generation of cohesion policy for the financial planning period 2014-2020 places greater emphasis on integrated and local approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion. i voted in favour of the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ the report amends the previous regulation on community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment in order to allow the commission to modernise the regulation under the power of attorney. the main objective is to enable the statistics to be compiled to distinguish between greenfield foreign direct investment and foreign direct investment leading to acquisitions, the latter of which do not increase either the gross accumulation in the member state or the working capital of the business unit affected by the change of ownership during a given period. i supported the adoption of the report because the amendment of the regulation is intended to make capital flows more traceable. it should be noted, however, that this is necessary because the previous liberalization of capital flows, the deregulation of the financial sector, has created an opaque situation, which is a hotbed for tax evasion and speculation carried out by various methods.
in writing. ‒ european statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment (fdi) are key to ensuring informed economic policy decision-making and accurate forecasting of the economic outlook. this is of paramount importance both at the level of the european union and at the level of individual member states, and i therefore voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is part of the overall eu framework for monitoring economic developments in individual member states and in the union as a whole. these statistics help to ensure consistency between the economic policies of the member states and the broad guidelines of the union and the legal requirements resulting from the eu economic governance framework. the parliament's report points to the revision of the regulation as a real opportunity to improve the transparency and detail of statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. furthermore, to take advantage of the latest legal innovations that make these statistics more reliable tools for economic policy decisions. secondly, regulation (ec) no 184/2005 should be updated to ensure its consistency with the rules in the tfeu conferring on the commission the power to adopt delegated and implementing acts. this regulation should be aligned with the treaty of lisbon, as it distinguishes between the powers conferred on the commission as regards the adoption of non-legislative acts of general scope (delegated acts) supplementing or amending certain non-essential provisions of legislative acts as provided for in article 290 (1) tfeu and the adoption of uniform conditions for the implementation of binding union acts (implementing acts) as provided for in article 291 (2) tfeu. i voted for the report as a shadow rapporteur.
in writing. in the 11 years since the adoption of the original regulation, the volume and complexity of international capital flows have increased significantly and its modernisation is therefore timely. the primary objective of the report is to support the use of statistics to distinguish between greenfield foreign direct investment and foreign direct investment leading to acquisitions. the fight against tax fraud and aggressive tax planning is a hot topic today, and it could also be a good idea to review the rules to ensure that capital flows are better traced. i would point out that all this would not have been necessary if excessive liberalisation had not happened earlier.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council to amend regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. the amendment concerns implementing powers and would empower the commission to adopt certain measures. it aims to improve the transparency and detail of statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment and to bring regulation (ec) no 184/2005 into line with the treaty of lisbon. in its report, the committee recommends that parliament adopt the proposal with 28 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. it is part of the overall union framework for monitoring economic developments in individual member states and in the union as a whole. in these areas, the production of reliable statistics is particularly important, as it is the only way to monitor developments in current account balances or in cash flows within and outside the eu. since the adoption of the original regulation and subsequent amendments, the volume and complexity of international capital flows have increased, making it more difficult to monitor and thus to combat tax fraud and aggressive tax planning. it was therefore necessary to update the regulation, thereby providing more reliable statistics for economic policy decisions. i support the amendment calling on the member states to provide the data needed to produce community statistics in a timely manner, in the form and with the required quality. furthermore, i agree with the use of innovative methods such as the global entity identifier.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is part of the overall eu framework for monitoring economic developments in individual member states and in the union as a whole. in these areas, it is particularly important to produce reliable statistics to monitor developments in key features such as current account balances and cash flows within and outside the eu. i voted in favour of the s&d position.
i fully agree that the backward, poor regions within the european union should be closed off, and with some kind of conscious, well-thought-out strategy. this should be done - and has been for more than ten years - with those countries, not only with the mountain regions, but also with those countries whose backwardness, underdevelopment - so to speak - has not decreased at all compared to the western countries. it would have been much more if we were not in the european union, and we would have to assess exactly what these particularly underdeveloped areas are, and we would have to recognize that, for example, the destruction of the countryside is organically linked, it's not a random event that happened as a result of some natural disaster, but we would have to look at how the destruction of the countryside, the depopulation of the villages, the impoverishment is a systematic and logical consequence of the neoliberal policies of the european union, the economy and global free trade. thank you, sir.
in writing. ‒ the report also highlights the enormous potential of mountain and sparsely populated areas to provide the eu as a whole with an ecological resource for a sustainable future. at the same time, the population of some 70 million people living here faces a number of difficulties in their daily lives, which in turn lead to the depopulation of these areas. the result of simple economic thinking is that, due to the lack of economies of scale, all kinds of services are more expensive (transport, health, etc.) and are not adequately used by those living in relative poverty. the report sees a possible solution to these problems in the form of a concerted approach by the member states and the union, which should be summarised in a concrete and specific cohesion policy. it considers that a holistic approach is needed to develop a roadmap that could lead to a well-rounded mountain development strategy across the different policies. since the report calls for real solutions to real problems, i supported its adoption.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the economic, social and cultural development of mountain areas is hampered by the additional costs associated with climatic and topographical conditions, remoteness and difficult accessibility. as the lack of adequate infrastructure in mountain areas, including broadband coverage and investment, contributes to the growing gap between mountain and other regions, while maintaining agricultural production, emphasis should be placed on physical and digital accessibility, infrastructure and access to public services and services of general interest such as education, social and health care, transport and postal services for the population of these regions in the union. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the strasbourg plenary vote in may, i voted in favour of the report on mountain regions. the report calls for support for the less-developed mountain regions, outlining the problems these regions face. the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in mountain regions in line with the europe 2020 strategy is to address the problem of poor accessibility, which could be addressed by improving their infrastructure. i would like to stress the importance of digital connectivity, which can help to prevent depopulation in mountain regions. the rich natural resources and renewable energy sources of mountain regions can also help other eu member states to achieve sustainable growth. a similar approach should be applied to other areas affected by natural handicaps, which unfortunately also exist in hungary, as regards priority support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which highlights the importance of the eu's mountain regions from the perspective of cohesion policy. it is often the responsibility of member states to pay attention to mountain regions and the challenges they face. in particular, i support the report's efforts to highlight how the eu's mountain regions can contribute to the union's objectives, such as the europe 2020 strategy. the rich natural resources and values of mountain regions can provide jobs to improve employment in the eu, especially environmentally friendly jobs that contribute to the fight against climate change. in addition, the linking of mountain regions with surrounding areas and urban areas is crucial and the approach to the sustainable development of these areas must be transposed into cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for support for the less-favoured mountain regions, outlining the problems faced by these regions. the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in mountain regions in line with the europe 2020 strategy is to address the problem of physical inaccessibility. the only solution to this problem would be to develop infrastructure. i would like to stress the importance of digital connectivity, which can help to prevent depopulation in mountain regions. the rich natural resources and renewable energy sources of mountain regions can also help other eu member states to achieve sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ in the strasbourg plenary vote in may, i voted in favour of the report on mountain regions. the report calls for support for the less-developed mountain regions, outlining the problems these regions face. the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in mountain regions in line with the europe 2020 strategy is to address the problem of poor accessibility, which could be addressed by improving their infrastructure. i would like to stress the importance of digital connectivity, which can help to prevent depopulation in mountain regions. the rich natural resources and renewable energy sources of mountain regions can also help other eu member states to achieve sustainable growth.
in writing. the concept of sustainable survival makes sense, not only for sustainable development, but also for sparsely populated regions. these areas have a huge ecological potential, as the report rightly points out, for a sustainable future. we cannot fall into the trap of a one-sided economic approach which would lead to the depopulation of these areas. the report, which sees a possible solution in solving the problems jointly by the member states and the commission, along concrete and specific cohesion policies, should be supported. the question is, if we haven't achieved significant results so far, will we be able to do so in the future?
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on regional development proposes a resolution to be adopted by the european parliament on how eu mountain regions can contribute to the union's objectives, such as the europe 2020 strategy. the report points out that, in addition to the current definition of the concept of mountain as used in agriculture, there is a need for a regional policy definition that takes into account the crucial importance of linking mountain regions with surrounding areas and urban areas. it urges the introduction of an agenda for the eu's mountain regions, based on policies such as horizon 2020, cosme, life, natura 2000, the eu's broad-based strategy, the eu's strategy on adaptation to climate change, the eu's action plan for the environment, the european network and finance facility, european territorial cooperation, the european structural and investment funds and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). calls for the use of sustainable energy sources in mountain areas to be promoted, taking into account their possible ecological impact. it also calls for bridging the digital divide, which could be an important step towards stopping the depopulation of some mountain regions. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the strasbourg plenary vote in may, i voted in favour of the report on mountain regions. the report calls for support for the less-developed mountain regions, outlining the problems these regions face. the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in mountain regions in line with the europe 2020 strategy is to address the problem of poor accessibility, which could be addressed by improving their infrastructure. i would like to stress the importance of digital connectivity, which can help to prevent depopulation in mountain regions. the rich natural resources and renewable energy sources of mountain regions can also help other eu member states to achieve sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of cohesion policy, which makes important findings and recommendations on the development of mountain regions. i think that despite the steps taken to create consistency, there are still contradictions in the ability to combine different funds. double or multiple funding, non-transparent, purely political and non-professional funding do not help to harness development resources. the territorial dimension is being debated, but mountain areas are often overlooked, so it is up to member states to focus on mountain regions and the challenges they face. and the most disadvantaged communities, which share similar characteristics, have unfortunately been completely forgotten by the hungarian government. i believe that in addition to job creation and economic growth, renewable energy and environmental aspects should be given greater emphasis in these areas. however, i agree with the rapporteur that infrastructure, education and vocational training need to be further strengthened. i welcome the fact that the report also takes into account in detail what should be taken into account in the agenda and in a specific policy for mountain regions. i agree that, whatever its form, a coordinated approach is crucial to ensuring that eu funding is targeted in a strategically appropriate way to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ the eu's mountain regions are rarely covered by cohesion policy. the territorial dimension is being debated, but mountain areas are often overlooked, so it is up to member states to focus on mountain regions and the challenges they face. however, eu funds often focus on achieving specific outcomes. the difficulty of investing in mountain regions is due to the extra costs incurred due to the lack of infrastructure and the remoteness of the region, which leads to the neglect of these areas. i voted in favour of the s&d position.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity, madam president, and for you, mr. representative, to take my question. i think there is a place for honest speech in this parliament. what do you think the solution would be? we've heard it said many times before, what's not a solution. what do you think the solution is? thank you very much.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! it is a major step forward that trade negotiations between the european union and the south american free trade association, mercosur, can be resumed with the return of argentina. the eu needs to conclude a balanced free trade agreement with the south american bloc that benefits everyone. however, the preliminary impact assessment that was the basis for the opening of the negotiations is now outdated, as the world, including trade, has changed significantly since 2004. a new impact assessment reflecting the current situation is required. until that is born, it is irresponsible to restart negotiations, there are so many uncertainties. i was therefore shocked to learn of the european commission's tariff proposal for sensitive agricultural products, which contains figures that are completely out of touch with reality. it's not time for this. if the aim is to conclude a well-prepared, truly balanced free trade agreement, we must not rush, but take our time to achieve a good result. i regret that the oral question put by the international trade commission does not address these issues at all.
the following point is the statement by the council and the commission on the follow-up and progress of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (2016/2696 ((rsp)).
it's a two-card draw. you mentioned that the millennium development goals are the basis of this 2030 strategy. but since then, things have happened in the world, particularly in the case of the refugee crisis. do you not think that the european union's aid should be directed much more, much more intensively and more specifically to the refugees who are in the throes of a refugee crisis?
correct answer, obviously it fits the question.
my colleagues were not active here in the 'catch the eye' procedure, and i was only able to give the floor to two members. the "catch the eye" procedure is over.
madam president, the eu's support for lebanon and jordan is justified because it will reduce the number of migrants coming to europe. because the consequences of this immigration are serious. we know that the financial figures are also available: eur 250 000 over five years, a huge sum, since this is the basis on which the penalties for member states which refuse to take part in the quota are calculated. but there are more serious consequences. to give you a symbolic example, in hamburg, a little-used evangelical church was converted into a mosque, where it's not only used on fridays. well, you could say that we're happy that the function hasn't changed, the house of god is still the house of god, but let me quote turkish president erdogan. in 1997, as mayor of istanbul, he proudly proclaimed in a speech: "mosques are our barracks, domes are our helmets, minarets are our bayonets, the faithful are our soldiers". that's something we should all think about.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. i'd like to argue with you a little bit, because where do you think the safeguards are that prevent individual states from using the information they have obtained against their own citizens?
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity to ask, mr president, and to you, mr representative. i share your optimism, by the way, and i'm voting for this motion. but we have to say that this was born three years ago, before the migration crisis was as big as it is now. do you consider the protection mechanisms of this proposal against anti-alien tendencies to be sufficient?
in writing. ‒ i consider that transparent and consistent regulation of the commodity and capital markets is of the utmost importance in order to prevent economic and financial crises, and i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. - i supported the report and i congratulate mr. loones. the requirements of the capital requirements regulation (crr 575/2013/eu) and the capital requirements directive (crd 2013/36/eu) should apply to both credit institutions and investment firms. the capital requirements regime for investment firms is based on the regime for credit institutions, taking into account the investment services provided by investment firms, and is an adapted version thereof. it exempts commodity traders from the provisions on large exposures and capital requirements. however, the concept of commodity exchange trader should be clarified to include a wide range of operators operating in energy and commodity markets. the review of investment firms is essential for transparency and any act resulting from this review should be completed before the current exemptions expire at the end of 2017. the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: original deduction according to article 36 (1) (a) of crr
in writing. ‒ articles 493 (1) and 498 (1) of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 exempt commodity exchanges from the provisions on large exposures and own funds requirements. the two exemptions expire on 31 december 2017. the commission has decided to combine the issue of the appropriate regime for commodity traders and the issue of prudential supervision of investment firms in a single review. this review has been initiated, but it is almost impossible that any act resulting from this review will be finalised, adopted and applied before the expiry of the current exemptions (end of 2017). it is therefore appropriate to extend the duration of those exemptions. to that end, the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council that that regulation be amended. in its report, the economic and monetary committee recommends that parliament adopt the commission's proposal. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to amend regulation (eu) no 575/2013 which accepted the extension of the current exemptions provided for in the capital requirements regulation (crr). the relevant articles of the crr exempt commodity exchanges from the provisions on large exposures and own funds requirements. the purpose of this provision was to give regulatory authorities time to develop prudential rules that are appropriate to the risk profile of commodity traders. as both exemptions expire on 31 december 2017 and as the report points out, it is unlikely that the review of investment firms will be completed or the relevant legal act adopted and applied by the deadline, i supported the extension of the exemptions. moreover, it would create an unstable situation if, from the current system of exemptions from the provisions on large exposures and own funds requirements, commodity traders were first subject to a temporary regime fully implementing the requirements of the crr/crd and then very shortly thereafter to a framework specifically designed for them.
in writing. ‒ the requirements of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 (the capital requirements regulation, crr) and directive 2013/36/eu (the capital requirements directive, crd) apply to both credit institutions and investment firms. the capital requirements regime for investment firms is based on the regime for credit institutions, adapted to take account of the investment services provided by investment firms. i voted in favour, following the s&d group's position.
mr president, europol is the institution for european police cooperation. it also aims to prevent and combat crimes such as terrorism, trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants, and receives large amounts of european taxpayer money. do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, and the presidency of the european parliament, that it is time for the heads of europol to come before us and give an account of what they have done with this taxpayers' money and with their opportunities over the past few years? i am receiving more and more letters from citizens asking me whether european police forces have not deliberately allowed the tragedies that have occurred in europe as acts of terrorism to happen. so much for terrorism. what can you show me about human trafficking? what can they show us about international human trafficking networks? a lot of talk, a lot of money, zero results.
in writing. ‒ it is particularly timely to strengthen and equip the european agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) with all the necessary tools to be able to act appropriately in the fight against terrorism. the same applies to the prevention and combating of international organised crime. that is why i voted today in favour of the europol report. i support the reinforced mandate of the agency to be able to effectively coordinate and strengthen cooperation between member state authorities in preventing organised crime and fighting terrorism. i welcome this text, as it has struck the right balance between the protection of personal data and the success of investigations without jeopardising or impeding it.
in writing. ‒ it is particularly timely to strengthen and equip the european agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) with all the necessary tools to be able to act appropriately in the fight against terrorism and in the prevention and combating of international organised crime. that is why i voted today in favour of the europol report. the fidesz people's party delegation supports the strengthened mandate of the agency to be able to effectively coordinate and strengthen cooperation between the authorities of the member states in preventing organised crime and fighting terrorism. we welcome this text as it strikes the right balance between the protection of personal data and the success of investigations without jeopardising or impeding it.
in writing. ‒ it is particularly timely to strengthen and equip the european agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) with all the necessary tools to be able to act appropriately in the fight against terrorism and in the prevention and combating of international organised crime. that is why i voted today in favour of the europol report. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i support the strengthened mandate of the agency to be able to effectively coordinate and strengthen cooperation between the authorities of the member states in preventing organised crime and fighting terrorism. i welcome this text and have therefore voted in favour, since the right balance has been struck with regard to the protection of personal data without jeopardising or impeding the success of investigations.
in writing. ‒ it is particularly timely to strengthen and equip the european agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) with all the necessary tools to be able to act appropriately in the fight against terrorism and in the prevention and combating of international organised crime. that is why i voted today in favour of the europol report. the fidesz people's party delegation supports the strengthened mandate of the agency to be able to effectively coordinate and strengthen cooperation between the authorities of the member states in preventing organised crime and fighting terrorism. we welcome this text as it strikes the right balance between the protection of personal data and the success of investigations without jeopardising or impeding it.
in writing. ‒ a high level of data protection cooperation within the union, including police and judicial activities, can ensure that the fundamental rights of eu citizens are properly respected and protected. europol and other bodies have an important role to play in the face of the growing terrorism and migration crisis. effective cooperation between supervisory authorities is essential as the union and the member states share competence in this area. i am convinced that linking europol's knowledge of operational police cooperation with cepol's training and education expertise would strengthen the links between the two areas and create synergies. this would avoid unnecessary duplication of the two agencies' support tasks, which would result in a redistribution of savings. this is particularly important in the current economic situation. i voted in favour of the regulation establishing a european agency for law enforcement cooperation and training, by a single vote, with díaz de mera garcía consuegra as rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ it is particularly timely to strengthen and equip the european agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) with all the necessary tools to be able to act appropriately in the fight against terrorism and in the prevention and combating of international organised crime. the fidesz delegation supports the strengthened mandate of the agency, which will enable it to effectively coordinate and strengthen cooperation between the authorities of the member states in preventing organised crime and fighting terrorism. we welcome this text, which has managed to strike the right balance between the protection of personal data and the success of investigations, without jeopardising or impeding it.
in writing. ‒ it is particularly timely to strengthen and equip the european agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) with all the necessary tools to be able to act appropriately in the fight against terrorism and in the prevention and combating of international organised crime. that is why i voted today in favour of the europol report. the fidesz delegation supports the strengthened mandate of the agency to be able to effectively coordinate and strengthen cooperation between the authorities of the member states in preventing organised crime and fighting terrorism. we welcome this text as it strikes the right balance between the protection of personal data and the success of investigations without jeopardising or impeding it.
in writing. while not all efforts to combat terrorism are welcome, let us consider how this situation has developed, how eu citizens have been able to take part in acts of war and then return to europe to commit terrorist acts. the balance must also be found in the control of internet content, because it is not possible to build an orwellian system at the expense of decent eu citizens, instead of those in charge doing their job in time. this is a very important matter, and further negotiations are needed, within a deadline.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council that it adopt a regulation on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) and replacing and repealing council decisions 2009/371/jha, 2009/934/jha, 2009/935/jha, 2009/936/jha and 2009/968/jha. the council adopted its position on the proposal at first reading. in its report, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament, at second reading, agree with the council's position at first reading and adopt this regulation in accordance with the council's position. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ it is particularly timely to strengthen and equip the european agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) with all the necessary tools to be able to act appropriately in the fight against terrorism and in the prevention and combating of international organised crime. that is why i voted today in favour of the europol report. the fidesz delegation supports the strengthened mandate of the agency to be able to effectively coordinate and strengthen cooperation between the authorities of the member states in preventing organised crime and fighting terrorism. we welcome this text as it strikes the right balance between the protection of personal data and the success of investigations without jeopardising or impeding it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the proposal to increase europol's powers and effectiveness, in the belief that this agency is only one but a key element in the fight against terrorism in europe. i am also disappointed that the political consensus between the council and parliament, which was already in place last november, has only now, following the tragic terrorist attacks in brussels on 22 march, come to a real recognition of the need for urgent legislation. the proposed changes in terms of competence and organisation, including a wider and more coherent exchange and analysis of information, a european counter-terrorism centre or rapid response units coupled with the reassuring oversight of the data protection officer have been long overdue and on the agenda of the eu institutions for some time. i therefore consider it important to bear in mind that the success of the proposal and the effectiveness of europol with its extended powers will continue to depend fundamentally on the willingness and ability of the governments, law enforcement agencies and authorities of the member states to cooperate. as the representative of some member states - hungary - i regret to say that, in my view, in addition to our current legislation, the council has to do a lot more than just legislate to ensure that europol has a stable background in the member states, mainly because of the insufficient attitude of my country's government towards the eu's common counter-terrorism and migration policy.
in writing. ‒ a harmonised and high level of data protection across the union, including police and judicial activities, can ensure that the fundamental rights of eu citizens are properly respected and protected. since the union and the member states share competence in the area of freedom, security and justice, close and effective cooperation between supervisory authorities at national and union level is essential. i voted in line with the s&d group and did not support the proposals of the greens and the efdd.
mr. president, the author's name is familiar to many hungarians, mrs. wikström was the one who was willing to reject the petition of the hungarian victims of currency misdeeds, deprived of rights, without justification, so i read her report with suspicion as a hungarian. and it is no coincidence that i quote here some of the figures: migration from outside the union is one of the sources of highly qualified labour supply and there is a growing demand for groups of students and researchers with third country nationality. students and researchers with third-country nationality can provide the pool of highly qualified potential workers and human capital that the european union needs to meet these challenges. dear ms. wikström, please ask hungarian researchers, hungarian university students, hungarian unemployed people before writing such repugnant texts in a report.
in writing. ‒ excerpt from the recommendation of the legislative proposal: globalization makes it urgent to strengthen links between eu businesses and foreign markets, and the mobility of trainees and au pairs contributes to the development of human capital, which mutually enriches migrants, the country of origin and the host country, and creates a process through which we can learn more about each other's culture. other the proposal meets the demand for cheap labour from multinational companies and aims to create a europe of mixed ethnic composition, while the quality of life of indigenous european communities is declining due to high unemployment and increasing immigration. on these grounds, i supported the motion of the efdd and enf groups to reject the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we regulate the conditions of entry and residence in the eu of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, remunerated and unremunerated training, voluntary service and au pairing. the document is balanced, allows third-country nationals to acquire skills and knowledge through a period of training in europe and supports cooperation with third countries. it sets clear rights and duties for all people who wish to enter and study or train in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second reading of the report in general. the union must be competitive on the world market, while at the same time providing guarantees and equal treatment for talented young people from third countries. similar policies should result in a strengthening of the union's overall competitiveness and growth rate, while creating jobs that contribute more to gdp growth. the proposal will facilitate and simplify mobility within the union for students and researchers, in particular those participating in the erasmus mundus or marie curie programmes. these programmes are important components of a responsible european education policy. the proposal provides for the issuing of a long-stay visa or residence permit to applicants who fulfil all the conditions for admission in one of the member states. this needs to be reviewed in the light of current events. furthermore, given the current migration pressure, i cannot support the claims that europe must increasingly rely on immigration to fill jobs and ensure economic growth.
in writing. it is interesting that the eu leadership has not achieved any significant results in tackling the unemployment rate of young graduates in europe, which is above 20% in some places, but would be keen to import more graduates and graduate-trained citizens from third countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council the adoption of a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects and au pairs. parliament adopted its position on the proposal at first reading. the greek parliament submitted a reasoned opinion that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the council then adopted its position at first reading. in its report, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament, at second reading, agree with the council's position at first reading and adopt this directive in line with the council's position. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, considering that it is an important and particularly relevant element of the migration package proposed by the european commission three years ago, before the refugee crisis erupted. as a left-wing politician, i believe that one of the main positive aspects of the proposed legislation is that the scope of the proposed european regulation extends to social and labour protection for vulnerable groups of workers, particularly young workers, such as trainees, childcare workers and volunteers. that is why i want to monitor implementation particularly closely, since in the current political and economic situation in europe, with the pressure of migration, professionals and workers from third countries can easily become the target of xenophobic, racist and anti-democratic incitement in some member states. of course, the interests of european workers cannot be harmed by the single european law, but in my view we cannot allow such demagogy (sometimes fomented by governments) to take place at the level of the member states, which have the most direct role in regulating and admitting workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in line with the s&d group and did not support the efdd and enf proposals.
mr president, this report is about the distribution of the so-called cohesion funds, i.e. funds to help the less-developed regions, the less-developed countries, and it contains some sensible ideas and proposals. among other things, we should look at whether these funds could be used to create jobs. and i liked the way that you assessed, you looked at whether potential beneficiaries might be under-informed about these projects, these funding opportunities. well, it'd be good to find out why. i have an idea because i read the newspaper. i think it's because the potential and actual sponsors are getting information, which is the buddies. everyone knows that political power and economic power are intertwined, and much of the eu's money is already distributed well in advance, among networks, networks, corrupt cronies. this is something that needs to change, and this is one of the ways that these huge differences between countries can actually be eliminated or reduced.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy contains a number of very useful and forward-looking ideas. the motion for a resolution outlines the problems that have hampered the implementation of cohesion policy in the 2007-13 programming period (such as insufficient information for potential beneficiaries, long processes for project approval, complex state aid and public procurement rules) and stresses the need to strengthen administrative capacity, as this is one of the prerequisites for the effective and timely implementation of cohesion policy. it stresses the importance of timely disbursement of cohesion funds, the urgent need to close the payment backlog and calls for better communication on cohesion policy and its results. as the motion for a resolution states, it is of the utmost importance that common thinking on cohesion policy post-2020 starts as soon as possible. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu's cohesion policy has a budget of €350 billion for the period up to 2020. the extension of the n+2 rule to n+3 in the 2014-2020 financial framework could be effective, but the delay between 2014 and the end of 2015 is worrying, especially in the adoption of the operational programmes. the question focuses on the following points: avoidance of suspension of payments; for the period 2007-2013, is the commission aware of the difficulties, risks and opportunities for improvement in the implementation of the programmes; what is the focus of the commission in improving the implementation of the programmes between 2014-2020; does it support and, if so, how does it support the increase of administrative capacity, as this has a fundamental impact on the success of cohesion policy; what measures and reforms are encouraged to use the resources; how will they allow for the successful implementation of payments from 2016 onwards?
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy contains a number of very useful and forward-looking ideas, which i voted in favour of in the plenary vote in strasbourg in may. the motion for a resolution outlines the problems that have hampered the implementation of cohesion policy in the 2007-13 programming period (such as insufficient information for potential beneficiaries, long processes for project approval, complex state aid and public procurement rules), stresses the need to strengthen administrative capacity as a prerequisite for the effective and timely implementation of cohesion policy, highlights the importance of timely disbursement of cohesion funds, the urgent need to close the payment backlog and calls for better communication on cohesion policy and its results. as the motion for a resolution states, it is of the utmost importance that common thinking on cohesion policy post-2020 starts as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i have adopted the motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. cohesion policy is one of the european union's most effective tools to combat inequalities, extending across the union and making us united and fair. cohesion policy and its supporting instrument system are the most important safeguards at union level for strengthening economic and social convergence. it should be borne in mind that cohesion funding is the primary source of public investment in most member states. we therefore need a structured, transparent and simplified system to make efficient use of the 350 billion euro budget available by 2020. the lack of targeted activities and the lack of capacity building of local actors was a frequent problem in the previous financial period. in the hope of better use in the future, we must concentrate on the county's development resources, since our main task is to stimulate the economy through small and medium-sized enterprises. in line with this, the 2014-2020 provisions introduced the flexibility needed to better address local needs, a greater focus on results and a better coordinated use of investment funds. i particularly welcome this paragraph in the motion.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy contains a number of very useful and forward-looking ideas. the motion for a resolution outlines the problems that have hampered the implementation of cohesion policy in the 2007-13 programming period. for example, insufficient information for potential beneficiaries, a long process for project approval, complicated state aid and public procurement rules. stresses the need to strengthen administrative capacity, as one of the prerequisites for the effective and timely implementation of cohesion policy, stresses the importance of timely disbursement of cohesion funds, the urgent need to close the payment backlog and calls for better communication on cohesion policy and its results. as the motion for a resolution states, it is of the utmost importance that common thinking on cohesion policy post-2020 starts as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy contains a number of very useful and forward-looking ideas, which i voted in favour of in the plenary vote in strasbourg in may. the motion for a resolution outlines the problems that have hampered the implementation of cohesion policy in the 2007-13 programming period (such as insufficient information for potential beneficiaries, long processes for project approval, complex state aid and public procurement rules), stresses the need to strengthen administrative capacity as a prerequisite for the effective and timely implementation of cohesion policy, highlights the importance of timely disbursement of cohesion funds, the urgent need to close the payment backlog and calls for better communication on cohesion policy and its results. as the motion for a resolution states, it is of the utmost importance that common thinking on cohesion policy post-2020 starts as soon as possible.
in writing. cohesion policy serves the interests of both the centre and the periphery, if properly implemented. the objective of the resolution should be agreed, which can reduce overall obstacles, reduce administrative burdens. accelerating implementation also helps reduce unemployment and increase efficiency. the member states are also responsible for allocating the available resources among their entrepreneurs, and this should be improved.
in writing. ‒ the committee on regional development has proposed a resolution to speed up the implementation of cohesion policy. the draft aims to address the main obstacles to the use of resources in each member state during the 2007-13 programming period and urges the analysis of the lessons learned from that period and their application in the current period. it points to the importance of administrative capacity for the timely and successful delivery of cohesion policy. it criticises the excessive centralisation and lack of trust and stresses the importance of timely payments for the correct and effective implementation of cohesion policy and its credibility. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy contains a number of very useful and forward-looking ideas, which i voted in favour of in the plenary vote in strasbourg in may. the motion for a resolution outlines the problems that have hampered the implementation of cohesion policy in the 2007-13 programming period (such as insufficient information for potential beneficiaries, long processes for project approval, complex state aid and public procurement rules), stresses the need to strengthen administrative capacity as a prerequisite for the effective and timely implementation of cohesion policy, highlights the importance of timely disbursement of cohesion funds, the urgent need to close the payment backlog and calls for better communication on cohesion policy and its results. as the motion for a resolution states, it is of the utmost importance that common thinking on cohesion policy post-2020 starts as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i agree that cohesion policy, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020, is an instrument that helps bring the eu closer to its citizens. i also share the view that cohesion policy is one of the most important investment and development policies for all eu regions and, in many cases, the primary source of public investment. i therefore consider it important to draw the attention of all stakeholders to the need for better coordination of implementation. the resolution points out that the 2014-2020 provisions have introduced a number of key reforms in the area of cohesion policy. this is the case of 'thematic concentration', which allows for taking into account local needs, greater focus on results, better alignment with economic and social policies, a closer link between eu priorities and regional needs, and a better coordinated use of the european structural and investment funds through the common strategic framework. i would also like to draw the attention of the hungarian government to the fact that cohesion policy investments should be coordinated and matched with other eu policies such as the digital single market, the energy union, social affairs, the macro-regional strategy, urban planning, research and innovation and transport in order to better contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
in writing. ‒ with a budget of over eur 350 billion by 2020, cohesion policy is an instrument to help bring the eu closer to its citizens and a key investment and development policy for all eu regions; in some member states, cohesion policy is the primary source of public investment. i voted in favour, following the s&d group's position.
mr president, you are constantly talking about solidarity between the countries of the european union and constantly insulting my country, hungary. please, we've had our fair share of solidarity. we have defended the common borders of europe with our own resources, with our own money, with our own energy, just as we have done so many times in history. we started with the rule of law, which is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, and we did what european standards, european legislation, required us to do: we protected the border. you, on the other hand, seem to have no concept of the rule of law, because you're doing something that is totally illegal. on the one hand, the population exchange you want to do is illegal under international law, and on the other hand, the law requires that the penalty you want to impose with this 250,000 euros be imposed only if you have already told us in advance what the illegal act is for which you want to impose a penalty, and only a court could do that, not you. stop right there... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the commission's proposals are divisive and do not help to solve the real problem in europe. it is contrary to the clearly expressed wishes of some member states, which have failed to take account of the subsidiarity requirement in a number of areas. it is divisive, it is a source of tension for the public, because it proposes a mechanism with which a large part of the european public does not agree. eu citizens may feel that the state is spending more on a refugee than on its own citizens. the cost to a member state of 250,000 euros for a single refugee creates social tensions, as the gdp per capita of eu citizens is far below this in many member states. the commission's interpretation of european solidarity is a one-sided approach, solidarity cannot be imposed by sanctions. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the epp therefore welcomes the efforts of the epp to give this concept of solidarity a broader meaning, including efforts to protect the external borders. this presentation shows that if some member states do not respect the rules, for example at the external borders, the response will be to create new rules rather than enforcing the existing ones. the commission's proposals should have been aimed at reducing the overall burden on europe. it would have been important to have an external dimension, to address the causes of refugee status, to select the actual refugees without confusing the refugee issue with general migration.
madam president, schengen is perhaps the most important achievement of the european union, and it is tangible and perceptible to the citizens. not only is it a great convenience in everyday life, but its economic significance is also enormous. schengen is also a great symbol of freedom, unity and a common europe. that is why it is discouraging to see national governments give up easily what has been so hard fought for. it is a delusion to think that closure, exclusion, ever-tighter controls, suspension of schengen borders will somehow solve the difficulties caused by migration. it does not solve conflicts, but rather aggravates them. it gives the impression that there is a separate solution for each member state, when we know that there is none. the pointless "law and order" policy only strengthens the far right. this is well illustrated by what has happened in austria in recent days. it must be understood that the best means of taking over the sails of the demagogues cannot be used to catch the wind. but once again, the real price is paid by those fleeing war. this week, a 26-year-old syrian woman was seriously wounded at the hungarian-slovak border when border guards opened fire on her. is this europe today? is this where we're at? we all have a common duty to protect schengen. we cannot allow national selfishness, populist far-right politics. it is not refugees that threaten europe and schengen, but rather the closure, the nationalist egoism, the stupid populism.
in writing. while it's been a good trick to hide behind a company and hide the black money in an exotic country, it's about to be easy for the confused fishermen to be exposed to their national tax authorities. however, it should be clarified that there has always been an exchange of information between the countries concerned if they have concluded a tax treaty, or since the tax haven countries have not, or have only concluded a double taxation treaty with a few countries if they have concluded a treaty specifically on the exchange of tax information. however, the previous conventions have not proved to be sufficiently useful, and it has been shown that we need a unified approach, which is now reflected in mr rosati's report. i think the world is going through a new financial revolution right now, and that includes the regulation of offshore, but there are a lot of question marks about that. it's an offshore world problem based on income concealment, but there's not much you can do about it. however, it should be added that the automatic exchange of data agreement requires serious preparation by the national tax authorities and it is a big question how this can be implemented in my country, for example, hungary. the irs is not equipped to handle this much wealth, so interpreting complicated corporate and financial data can be difficult, and it can lead to a lengthy litigation.
in writing. under regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers, the european commission had to submit a report on the mandatory indication of the origin of certain foods. the results of the reports on dairy products and meat products other than beef, pigmeat, sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat are presented in full colour. the consumer demand for information on origin and the economic impact of the mandatory indication of origin also vary significantly between the different categories. while consumers are interested in the origin of milk and meat products used as ingredients in dairy products, their willingness to pay for this information seems to be rather modest. the disclosure of this information by the manufacturer would entail additional costs and administrative burdens. the report concluded that voluntary designation of origin would cause the least disturbance to the market and would not affect the price of the products. according to a national survey of hungarian consumers, the vast majority of consumers consider it particularly important that a food be of hungarian origin. they require, in order to make their purchasing decisions, to be provided with sufficient and reliable information on the origin of the product in the case of milk and milk products. the question is therefore whether the ratio of costs to benefits justifies the compulsory introduction of the indication of origin. to this end, voluntary and mandatory options for designation of origin should be examined, taking into account consumer considerations and the possibilities of food business operators.
in writing. we must put the health of the citizens of the european union first and support it in all our decisions. it's our duty, and everything else has to be secondary. the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat and processed meat products has already generated serious debate at expert committee level. it has raised serious concerns among some operators, who consider that such mandatory indication of origin would lead to significant additional production costs. i did. however, such a price effect is only applicable if the raw material in question has so far been obtained from third, or even questionable, sources. however, if the raw material was sourced from the eu market or from a country with adequate quality assurance, this negative effect disappears. i do not accept the rhetoric of the tidal wave. and i would go further: why not extend this capability to other products? of course, this can only be solved by a serious planning and legislative process and by clarifying definitions. but i think the principle itself is supportive. i think it is important to mention that this is not a question of good or bad labelling, and i do not accept labelling as 'harmful' or 'healthy' simply because of the sugar or salt content. this is about ensuring that consumers can decide whether they want to buy food produced under the eu's high quality assurance system or choose another.
in writing. renewable energy, including hydropower and geothermal energy, will play a key role in europe's energy supply in the coming years. renewable energy is the key to the energy independence and security of the eu member states. this is particularly important for the eu, which buys energy carriers worth one billion euros a day, or for hungary, which is almost entirely dependent on russian natural gas and nuclear fuel. the eu is moving more or less well towards its 2020 targets, with renewables currently accounting for 16% of total energy consumption. however, there are some member states which unfortunately do not pay enough attention to the energy of the future. this includes poland, which is once again turning its back on coal, or hungary, which is opting for a paks nuclear power plant expansion instead of renewables. hungary has not developed renewable energy production since 2010, despite having by far the best capacity in europe, after iceland, for example in geothermal energy. in hungary, the geothermal potential is only 6% used, even though four paks nuclear power plants would be suitable for electricity production. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's renewable energy targets and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's renewable energy targets. the development of renewable energy is one of the most important issues for modern economies in the 21st century. i hope the skeptics will soon see that.
in writing. an interesting fact about the report is that there are fewer than 100 000 men in the eu who would take the leave they could. unfortunately, the reasons for this are not mentioned in the report. the hungarian parental leave system is extremely generous, both parents can take it from the age of six months, and the father can choose to stay at home with the child. but that's not enough. we also need to think about a new kind of work organisation model that is more conducive to reconciling family and work, more suitable than the current less successful models. this is particularly important for those who care for children/family members with disabilities. i also think it is important to stress that i do not see the possibility of eu-wide uniformity beyond the minimum requirements for parental leave, as the labour market opportunities, family models, working culture traditions, etc. of the individual member states change slowly and cannot be overwritten in a short time. in my experience, i believe that much more emphasis should be placed on educating and persuading employers, on promoting various more modern, new working time models, on spreading good practices that are better adapted to the demands of today's lifestyles and also to the needs of families, and at the same time showing employers that they would not be wrong to employ parents with children, but would instead be doing so in a family-friendly way that would be of particular benefit to them.
madam president, in several member states, multinational companies are given significant tax breaks or exemptions, and as a result many local smes suffer significant competitive disadvantages or go bankrupt. another consequence is that the member state, the citizens, the economy lose significant revenues. it was not the spanish authorities who discovered this and who condemned it. but how far did it go? so much so that the data, the information, has to be exchanged. that's not enough. this kind of economic policy must be ended and local smes must be supported. and it cannot be that a juncker is the president of the european commission and can represent the european union, including at the forefront of immigration policy, who has become notorious for this whole policy of tax avoidance. you can't drink wine at the same time... (the president withdrew the member's answer)
madam president, please inform me of the point in the rules of procedure whereby the president may overrule the content of the statement of objections. when did the european parliament change so much that the institution of censorship was introduced? i'd like to ask you to inform me. thank you, thank you.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the amendment of directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the problem of crossborder tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has become an increasingly serious challenge for eu member states in recent years. under the current legal framework (directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation), member states do not yet share their country-by-country reports with each other, but there is an urgent need to increase the transparency of taxation in order to prevent tax evasion. the amendment will require multinational groups of companies located or operating in the union with aggregate consolidated revenues of at least eur 750 million to submit country-by-country reports. the member state which received the country-by-country report shall communicate the report by automatic exchange to all other member states in which one or more of the companies of the multinational group of companies are resident for tax purposes. the country-by-country report shall contain information such as the amount of revenue, profit before tax, income tax paid and payable, number of employees, amount of registered capital, profit margin and tangible assets. since multinational groups are required to submit a country-by-country report for the reporting financial year each year from 2017 onwards and since the amendment is designed to curb tax avoidance, i voted in favour of the amendment.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the challenges of cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition have become more acute. in the econ and taxe reports, we have strengthened the legal framework for the transparency of tax information, in particular by introducing country-by-country reporting for multinational groups of companies. the panama papers scandal has shown that there is a great need for increased transparency. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposal is a step in the right direction, particularly with regard to the need to increase transparency and the threshold for multinational groups of companies to be required to report on a country-by-country basis. the report welcomes the transparency requirements for multinational groups. increased transparency may also provide an incentive for multinational groups to meet their tax obligations to a greater extent in the country where they operate. the introduction of automatic exchange of information between national tax authorities is more important than ever. the competitiveness of european businesses and the performance of the economy are at stake. i congratulate my colleague from the rosati group on the excellent report which i supported with my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission to adopt a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the council has consulted parliament on the proposal. the swedish parliament submitted a reasoned opinion that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. in its report, the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that parliament approve the commission proposal with 34 amendments and ask the commission to amend its proposal to the council accordingly. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the econ and taxe committees have long advocated greater transparency in the taxation of large multinational companies, which would be greatly facilitated by country-by-country reporting. the commission proposal to introduce a new article in directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation defining the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on country-by-country reports is welcomed. however, i welcome the amendments to the report which extend the exchange of information to the european commission and which ask the commission to assess on the basis of this information whether member states are actually complying with eu state aid rules.
in writing. ‒ in the field of corporate taxation, unfair tax practices also have a state aid dimension. therefore, in order to ensure compliance with the relevant competition rules, the commission should also have access to information exchanged between the tax authorities of the member states. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i have adopted parliament's resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in the catering and retail trade. the union fisheries sector provides the world's largest seafood market for third countries. we need to provide consumers with the right information and follow-up to give them confidence in eu fishery products and the sector as a whole. the aim is to protect consumers from fraud and therefore greater transparency is needed, which can be achieved by a stronger tracking system and enhanced national controls. the mislabelling of products is significant and these errors should be corrected as soon as possible, as deliberate mislabelling of fish species constitutes a breach of union legislation, including the common fisheries policy. an appropriate european labelling policy is needed, which would be a key factor in recognising the best practices of fishermen and the quality of their products for consumers.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the world's largest market for seafood, supplied by the eu fisheries sector and imports from third countries. according to various studies, a significant proportion of fishery products sold on the union market are mislabeled, and deliberate and fraudulent mislabeled fisheries constitute a breach of union law, including the common fisheries policy, and can be considered a criminal offence. it therefore calls on the commission and the member states to strengthen controls and to study the introduction of measures to improve the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products. calls on the commission to provide the necessary information to the member states on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment; i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, mainly because of its consumer protection aspects. as is well known, the european union is the world's largest market for seafood, with a significant share of imports from third countries. i think it is important that consumers are informed about where they are caught and that imported products comply with eu rules and standards. i share the concern that significant mislabelling and abuse on the eu market could lead to serious problems. i therefore agree that member state controls should be strengthened, that the fight against fraud should be stepped up and that a system of voluntary or compulsory certificates could be useful. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency. this means that they are not only important from the consumer side, but they can also be effective tools from the producer side. i believe that, like the different foodstuffs, the different systems of authorisations for the marketing of fish in the member states can lead to misunderstandings and abuses, and i therefore welcome the convergence of these systems and their publication in all the official languages of the union. i also believe it is important to exploit marine resources sustainably and to fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ consumers have the right to information in plain language, including geographical and coastal information on catch areas, and should be able to have full confidence in the whole chain of supply of fishery products to the eu market. i voted for it.
madam president, i think that in many member states people are debating whether it is a good thing that i can go out and buy in the chinese market, in the chinese store, or that other markets are also full of chinese dumped goods, mass-produced goods. this is a very good thing, because it is cheap, many say, for example, mothers with many children who can buy shoes, clothes, school supplies, etc., for their children there. yes, but you just have to put this particular cheapness in context and why so many people, for example in hungary, are forced to buy cheap, poor quality goods. because it is precisely the result of global free trade that has structured the economy in such a way that they are forced to work in jobs that are very low-wage and work that is also work-related, and paradoxically, this creates demand for cheap, often useless, poor-quality goods.
in writing. ‒ section 15 (ii) (a) of the protocol of accession of china to the wto sets out the rules applicable to china in the anti-dumping proceeding, the dumping margins applicable in the proceeding. this provision expires in december 2016 after a '15-year grace period'. therefore, the eu as a wto member should also decide what regulation it will apply in its internal market to chinese imports, more specifically whether china has fulfilled the five wto criteria for being accepted as a market economy state. the european people's party is unanimous in its view that china is not a market economy, since it exercises, inter alia, official influence on the pricing of certain exported products. steel products and solar cells are particularly sensitive products for the eu. the joint alde/de/de/cor/ale resolution on this subject also confirms this position, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ as china is the eu's second largest trading partner and the eu china's first, it is crucial to promote the strategic partnership. trade and investment, based on mutual benefits, play a key role in this respect. however, we have to be loyal to the rules, and until china meets the five criteria set by the eu, it cannot be considered a market economy. it is also necessary to ensure that the union industry can act as an equal partner with china in full compliance with wto rules and to ensure that any method used effectively protects the union industry against dumped imports from china. i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ section 15 (ii) (a) of the protocol of accession of china to the wto sets out the rules applicable to china in the anti-dumping proceeding, the dumping margins applicable in the proceeding. this provision expires in december 2016 after a 15-year grace period. the eu, as a wto member, has to decide what regulation it will apply in its internal market to chinese imports, more specifically whether china has fulfilled the five wto criteria for being accepted as a market economy state. the european people's party is unanimous in its view that china is not a market economy, since it exercises, inter alia, official influence on the pricing of certain exported products. steel products and solar cells are considered to be particularly sensitive products for the eu. the joint alde/de/de/cor/ale resolution on this subject also confirms this position, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ section 15 (ii) (a) of the protocol of accession of china to the wto sets out the rules applicable to china in the anti-dumping proceeding, the dumping margins applicable in the proceeding. this provision expires in december 2016 after a '15-year grace period'. therefore, the eu as a wto member also has to decide what regulation it will apply in its internal market to chinese imports, more specifically whether china has fulfilled the five wto criteria which are the conditions for the admission of a state party as a market economy. the european people's party is unanimous in its view that china is not a market economy, since it exercises, inter alia, official influence on the pricing of certain exported products. steel products and solar cells are particularly sensitive products for the eu. the joint alde/de/de/cor/ale resolution on this subject also confirms this position, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ section 15 (ii) (a) of the protocol of accession of china to the wto sets out the rules applicable to china in the anti-dumping proceeding, the dumping margins applicable in the proceeding. this provision expires in december 2016 after a 15-year grace period. therefore, the eu as a wto member should also decide what regulation it will apply in its internal market to chinese imports, more specifically whether china has fulfilled the five wto criteria for being accepted as a market economy state. the european people's party is unanimous in its view that china is not a market economy, since it exercises, inter alia, official influence on the pricing of certain exported products. steel products and solar cells are particularly sensitive products for the eu. the joint alde-ppe-s&d-ecr-verts/ale resolution on this subject also confirms this position, and i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the ep's motion for a resolution on this subject was tabled by the efdd, enf, alde, ppe, s&d, gue/ngl, ecr and verts/ale groups. among them, alde, ppe, s&d, ecr and verts/ale reached a compromise and drew up a joint proposal. i voted for the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ section 15 (ii) (a) of the protocol of accession of china to the wto sets out the rules applicable to china in the anti-dumping proceeding, the dumping margins applicable in the proceeding. this provision expires in december 2016 after a 15-year grace period. therefore, the eu as a wto member should also decide what regulation it will apply in its internal market to chinese imports, more specifically whether china has fulfilled the five wto criteria for being accepted as a market economy state. the european people's party is unanimous in its view that china is not a market economy, since it exercises, inter alia, official influence on the pricing of certain exported products. steel products and solar cells are particularly sensitive products for the eu. the joint alde-ppe-s&d-ecr-verts/ale resolution on this subject also confirms this position, and i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution, mainly because, contrary to some of the proposals put forward in the course of the preparation, the current version of the joint resolution ensures that the people's republic of china will not continue to enjoy the automatic advantages granted to partner countries with a recognised market economy status on the eu market. i considered the fact that china has so far not fulfilled the requirements it undertook to do so when joining the wto and that the chinese government has not made any serious efforts to improve the conditions for access of european goods and services to the chinese market, in particular as regards access to public procurement. in such circumstances, the unjustified granting of market economy treatment could result in further price dumping of chinese goods on the eu market. this would put at risk many european jobs, particularly in the steel industry and in several other manufacturing sectors, which i consider it my clear duty as a politician of the european left to protect. in addition to these considerations, the proposal for a decision rightly points out that the people's republic of china has now emerged as the most important player in world trade, a major trade and economic partner of the eu, with which it is still in the interest of the union and its member states to maintain a continuous dialogue and to expand cooperation.
madam president, i think that value-based politics is a good thing and an important thing, but there are values that are simply incompatible with each other. so sustainability on one side, and on the other side, neoliberal economic policies and global free trade. the european union, which bases its economic policy on free trade, is contradicting itself by making these agreements binding. now he's passionately preparing for ttip, the free trade agreement with america, the united states. the essence of free trade is that goods, including agricultural products, are transported from one end of the world to the other with enormous environmental pollution. and the essence of sustainability, of "sustainability", is to preserve the environment and the world for future generations. it doesn't fit!
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision addresses the preconditions for the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. as you know, the 2030 agenda was adopted at the united nations summit on sustainable development in new york in september 2015. united nations general assembly resolution 70/1 calls for an annual assessment of progress in this area in order to achieve the commonly agreed goals (basically to keep global warming below 2°c, but if possible below 1.5°c). to achieve the objectives, 17 strands have been identified, including 169 targets, and progress towards these has been measured by 230 global indicators. the resolution calls on the commission to prepare a proposal for its sustainable development strategy with the full involvement of parliament. as the high level political forum on the issue will reconvene in july 2016, the eu will have to define its own position and member states will have to develop their own indicators in line with the global indicators . the proposal limits the waste of resources that has been created in the developed countries, it would stop the destruction of the environment, one of the consequences of which is the catastrophic rapid extinction of animals, and that is why i voted in favour of the adoption of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the un secretary-general is mandated to prepare an annual report on progress towards the sustainable development goals to support the monitoring and review by the un high-level political forum on sustainable development (hlpf). the aim of this motion for a resolution is to produce a coherent and unified eu position at the july meeting of the hlpf. this is also important because the commission has still not issued a communication on the follow-up to the 2030 agenda, which could form the basis of the common position. it also urges the commission to develop an effective monitoring and accountability mechanism to monitor the implementation of the 2030 agenda. the resolution also calls on the eu and its member states to re-commit 0.7% of their gross national income (gni) to official development assistance (oda).
in writing. ‒ the un secretary-general is mandated to prepare an annual report on progress towards the sustainable development goals to support the monitoring and review by the un high-level political forum on sustainable development (hlpf). the aim of this motion for a resolution is to produce a coherent and unified eu position at the july meeting of the hlpf. this is also important because the commission has still not issued a communication on the follow-up to the 2030 agenda, which could form the basis of the common position. it also urges the commission to develop an effective monitoring and accountability mechanism to monitor the implementation of the 2030 agenda. the resolution also calls on the eu and its member states to re-commit 0.7% of their gross national income (gni) to official development assistance (oda). i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ eradicating poverty and achieving the sustainable development goals remains our priority. the union has a serious responsibility towards present and future generations. the 2030 agenda has a positive perspective, which considers the sdgs to be integrated and indivisible, and balances the three dimensions of sustainable development - economic, social and environmental. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the un secretary-general is mandated to prepare an annual report on progress towards the sustainable development goals to support the monitoring and review by the un high-level political forum on sustainable development (hlpf). the aim of this motion for a resolution is to produce a coherent eu position at the july meeting of the hlpf. this is also important because the commission has still not issued a communication on the follow-up to the 2030 agenda, which could form the basis of the common position. it also urges the commission to develop an effective monitoring and accountability mechanism to monitor the implementation of the 2030 agenda. the resolution also calls on the eu and its member states to re-commit 0.7% of their gross national income (gni) to official development assistance (oda).
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled by the efdd, individually, and jointly by the ppe, s&d, ecr, alde and gue/ngl groups on the subject. i supported the joint motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report because i consider its assessment and analysis useful in helping the european union to meet our common objective of remaining a leader and a guide in financing international development and addressing other related global challenges, despite the serious problems we are currently facing in other areas. in my view, the 17 sdgs in the 2030 agenda are the most comprehensive global strategy to date that offers realistic alternatives to development. i consider it particularly important that in the fight against global poverty and vulnerability due to economic, political or climate change, the 2030 agenda prioritises the most vulnerable groups, women and children. the report also provides an opportunity to better exploit the synergies between crisis management and solutions in the current eu context, between the refugee crisis as a direct european problem and sustainable development in the world. i agree with the principle of the 2030 agenda that aid should be focused where it is most needed, but i believe that in the coming years the eu's efforts should focus more on regions and countries that are the main source of mass migration and refugees (mainly in africa, sub-saharan africa and the middle and middle east). this should not in any way diminish our commitment, but it could make the eu's engagement in global efforts more focused and effective.
in writing. ‒ systemic strategic planning, implementation and accountability are needed to ensure coherent and integrated implementation of the un development system. i voted for it.
madam president, i would like to quote a sentence from the report, in point h: 'since the food supply chain, which involves many food business operators and other stakeholders, is often long and complex, and because consumers know less and less about how the food they eat is produced, [...]' good morning, dear european union. i have been to the united states for a few days. well, yes, that's right. then i suggest we save what can be saved. the land grabbers would like to return the land to the local farmers and the local people. the oligarchs, local oligarchs as well as foreign ones. let's re-establish this local food production, local food production, farming, food processing. we'll fix the country, and then we won't have any problems like this. i say again, save what can be saved.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to introduce a compulsory designation of origin for meat products or food products containing meat ingredients, milk and milk products and partly also eggs. the lessons of the previous horse meat scandal should be taken into account and the origin of the meat used as a base should be indicated on all meat products. this is because consumers expect and consider it important to indicate the origin of products for reasons of national sentiment, tradition and food safety. the labelling will allow the consumer confidence index to increase in the meat products markets of each member state and to filter out food of uncertain origin. they shall provide adequate information and better guidance as to whether the products concerned contain raw material from regional, national, member state or third country sources. this information will allow food produced from genetically modified or cloned raw materials to be clearly distinguished from conventional food. the proposal is essential to ensure that the eu requires compliance with its new food safety and origin labelling requirements in all its ongoing negotiations with third countries (ttip, eu-cuba trade agreement, etc.), thus protecting the eu's internal markets and consumer interests. in view of this, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i support any resolution that seeks to promote the mandatory indication of the country or place of origin of food. in the case of milk and meat products, the indication of origin is considered to be particularly important for the preservation of quality and for ensuring transparency and traceability. for milk and milk products, 84% of consumers feel the need to indicate the origin, while for meat products, 90% of consumers feel the need to indicate the origin. the aim of labelling similar products is to restore consumer confidence in food products, to maintain the viability of european businesses and to help local economies. parliament's position is that the mandatory labelling should also cover other similar products, i.e. meat products other than beef, pig, sheep, goat and poultrymeat, unprocessed foodstuffs, single-ingredient products and ingredients representing more than 50% of a foodstuff.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety proposes that parliament adopt a resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods. the foodstuffs referred to are milk, milk used as an ingredient in dairy products, processed meat products and meat products other than beef, pigmeat, sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat. recommends that the commission implement mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for all milk, milk products and meat products and consider extending the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance to other products consisting of a single ingredient or products containing a single main ingredient; it also recommends that the commission take the necessary steps to curb abuses of the rules on voluntary indication of the origin of food. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on the origin or labelling of food. rules on the indication of origin already exist and work effectively for a number of other foods such as unprocessed meat products, eggs, fruit and vegetables, fish, honey, extra virgin olive oil, virgin olive oil and wine and spirits. however, most of them are voluntary and do not solve all problems, such as fraud. i agree that account should be taken, inter alia, of the need for information on the part of consumers, the practical feasibility of mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance and the cost-benefit analysis of the introduction of such measures. the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat and processed meat products has already generated serious debate at expert committee level. the origin or designation of origin may be extended to other products, but this can only be solved by a serious planning and legislative process and by clarifying the definitions.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution of 11 february 2015, parliament urged the commission to follow up its earlier report with legislative proposals to make the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods mandatory, in order to make the food chain more transparent and to better inform european consumers. i voted in favour of the present motion in line with the s&d position.
madam president, one of the biggest social problems in the european union and in hungary, my own country, is the so-called demographic crisis, that is, the fact that not enough children are being born. it would be difficult to list the reasons, but i would like to highlight two of them. one is that it's very difficult, and it's getting harder to reconcile work and life. and the other is that, sadly, it is rare for a marriage to be a relationship where love and justice are so closely linked that the raising of children is a shared responsibility, and the joys and the worries are shared. i supported this report because it points in both directions, that is to say, it considers the raising and care of children to be a shared responsibility of the father and the mother, and it helps to reconcile the private and the professional world.
in writing. ‒ an interesting fact about the report is that there are fewer than 100 000 men across the eu who would take the leave they could. unfortunately, the reasons for this are not mentioned in the report. the hungarian parental leave system is extremely generous, both parents can take it from the age of six months, and the father can choose to stay at home with the child. but that's not enough. we also need to think about a new kind of work organisation model that is more conducive to reconciling family and work, more suitable than the current less successful models. this is particularly important for carers of children/family members with disabilities. i also think it is important to stress that beyond the minimum requirements for parental leave, i do not see the possibility of uniformity at eu level, as the labour market opportunities, family models, working culture traditions, etc. of each member state change slowly and cannot be overwritten in a short time. in my experience, i believe that much more emphasis should be placed on educating and persuading employers, on promoting various more modern, new working time models, on spreading good practices that are better adapted to the requirements of modern lifestyles and the needs of families, and at the same time showing employers that they would not be wrong to employ parents with children, but would instead be operating in a family-friendly way that would be of particular benefit to them. i therefore voted in favour of the report, in line with the people's party.
in writing. ‒ an interesting fact about the report is that there are fewer than 100 000 men across the eu who would take the leave they could. unfortunately, the reasons for this are not mentioned in the report. the hungarian parental leave system is extremely generous, both parents can take it from the age of six months, and the father can choose to stay at home with the child. but that's not enough. we also need to think about a new kind of work organisation model that is more conducive to reconciling family and work, more suitable than the current less successful models. this is particularly important for carers of children/family members with disabilities. i also think it is important to stress that beyond the minimum requirements for parental leave, i do not see the possibility of uniformity at eu level, as the labour market opportunities, family models, working culture traditions, etc. of each member state change slowly and cannot be overwritten in a short time. in my experience, i believe that much more emphasis should be placed on educating and persuading employers, on promoting various more modern, new working time models, on spreading good practices that are better adapted to the requirements of modern lifestyles and the needs of families, and at the same time showing employers that they would not be wrong to employ parents with children, but would instead be operating in a family-friendly way that would be of particular benefit to them. i therefore voted in favour of the report, in line with the people's party.
in writing. - i voted for mrs arena's report on parental leave. the european union is facing a serious demographic challenge, with a declining birth rate in most member states. to overcome the demographic challenge, a gender-balanced family policy should be developed. these measures should improve the labour market position of women and reconcile family and private life, and reduce the gender gap in pay, pensions and lifetime earnings. i welcome the fact that the union is tackling the issue of reconciling family and work, as international research shows that this aspect fundamentally influences the willingness to adopt children. the decline in childbearing is a european problem, and our priority is to reverse this trend. the family support system in my country, hungary, with its complex set of instruments, provides priority assistance to families raising children. it therefore uses a complex system of family support instruments which are more favourable to mothers than the current eu draft. it is also important to talk as much as possible at european level about how to improve the labour market situation of women and promote reconciliation between work and family life, but i am pleased that the report advocates the regulation of the minimum duration of parental leave at member state level.
in writing. ‒ across the eu, fewer than 100 000 men take maternity leave. unfortunately, the reasons for this are not mentioned in the report. the hungarian maternity leave system is extremely generous, both parents can take advantage of the child's six months of age to stay at home with the child. but that's not enough. we also need to think about a new kind of work organisation model that is more conducive to reconciling family and work, and which is more suitable than the current less successful models. this is particularly important for carers of children/family members with disabilities. it is also important that beyond the minimum requirements for parental leave, eu-wide harmonisation is not possible, as labour market opportunities, family models, working culture traditions, etc. in individual member states change slowly and cannot be overridden in a short time. experience suggests that much more emphasis should be placed on informing and persuading employers, on the dissemination of various more modern, new working time models and good practices that are better adapted to the demands of modern lifestyles and the needs of families.
in writing. ‒ an interesting fact about the report is that there are fewer than 100 000 men across the eu who would take the leave they could. unfortunately, the reasons for this are not mentioned in the report. the hungarian parental leave system is extremely generous, both parents can take it from the age of six months, and the father can choose to stay at home with the child. but that's not enough. we also need to think about a new kind of work organisation model that is more conducive to reconciling family and work, more suitable than the current less successful models. this is particularly important for carers of children/family members with disabilities. i also think it is important to stress that beyond the minimum requirements for parental leave, i do not see the possibility of uniformity at eu level, as the labour market opportunities, family models, working culture traditions, etc. of each member state change slowly and cannot be overwritten in a short time. in my experience, i believe that much more emphasis should be placed on educating and persuading employers, on promoting various more modern, new working time models, on spreading good practices that are better adapted to the requirements of modern lifestyles and the needs of families, and at the same time showing employers that they would not be wrong to employ parents with children, but would instead be operating in a family-friendly way that would be of particular benefit to them. i therefore voted in favour of the report, in line with the people's party.
in writing. ‒ an interesting fact about the report is that there are less than 100 000 men across the eu who would take the leave they could. unfortunately, the reasons for this are not mentioned in the report. the hungarian parental leave system is extremely generous, both parents can take it from the age of six months, and the father can choose to stay at home with the child. but that's not enough. we also need to think about a new kind of work organisation model that is more conducive to reconciling work and family, more suitable than the current, less successful models. this is particularly important for those who care for children/family members with disabilities. i also think it is important to stress that i do not see the possibility of eu-wide uniformity beyond the minimum requirements for parental leave, as the labour market opportunities, family models, working culture traditions, etc. of the individual member states change slowly and cannot be overwritten in a short time. in my experience, i believe that much more emphasis should be placed on educating and persuading employers, on promoting various more modern, new working time models, on spreading good practices that are better adapted to the demands of today's lifestyles and to the needs of families, and at the same time showing employers that they would not be wrong to employ parents with children, but would instead be operating in a family-friendly way that would be of particular benefit to them. i therefore voted in favour of the report, in line with the people's party.
in writing. ‒ in recent decades, the european union has introduced two pieces of legislation on family leave. the maternity leave directive was adopted in 1992 and the original parental leave directive in 1996, which was adapted in 2010 following a new agreement with the european social partners on the issue. the aim of the report by the employment and social committee is to assess the implementation of parental leave legislation by the member states and to draw the necessary political conclusions. these conclusions state that:• the legislation on parental leave should be reviewed and strengthened in terms of duration, remuneration, transferability and scope; • the legislation on maternity leave should also be reviewed in line with recent european parliament resolutions;• european legislation should also be adopted on paternity leave;• these laws should be developed in a consistent manner, in particular on the basis of agreements between the european social partners. i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the revised framework agreement on parental leave. first of all, i welcome the initiative of the committee on employment and social affairs. i agree with the idea expressed in the report that an integrated approach to gender equality in all future eu initiatives would bring coherence and transparency and would promote gender balance in work-life balance. it is appropriate that the report calls on the member states and the commission to ensure that family rights are equally accessible to both parents, thereby encouraging a better reconciliation of family and professional life in the best interests of their children. i particularly welcome the idea of the commission and the member states drawing society's attention to the rights and remedies related to work-life balance. i also support the point in the report where it is emphasised that better coordination, coherence and accessibility of the systems of leave (paternity, parental leave) within the member states would increase the rate of use. in this respect, a european directive on at least two weeks of paternity leave is essential, but i am in favour of full equality of rights.
in writing. ‒ in recent decades, two pieces of legislation have been introduced in the european union on family leave, one on maternity leave and the other on parental leave. i voted in favour of the present document.
madam president, the essence of the phenomenon of human trafficking is that people are bought and sold for the purposes of slave labour and slave labour, and in some cases, sexual slavery. what more important goal could there be than to prevent it and to detect and treat it effectively? of course, the goal is very important, but it's very sad when you get to the point where even with such an important report, you're looking for where the trick is, where the trap is. well, i quickly found it in paragraph 20, which reads: "it emphasises the importance of creating the possibility of legal and safe migration in order to prevent trafficking in human beings and smuggling of persons". please, the last time we spoke, the phenomenon of violence against women as such was exploited to say that in order to prevent and treat violence against women, we should do legal mass migration. now they're exploiting human trafficking for that purpose. when will there be enough lying and deception?
in writing. ‒ alternative ways of reducing prostitution and demand for it, and protecting the human rights of sex workers are issues that merit a separate parliamentary debate. the report on the prevention of trafficking in human beings and protection of victims is aimed at criminalising criminals who profit from the trafficking and exploitation of human beings, not at solving this issue. the criminalization of demand for prostitution has been in place in sweden for 15 years, in norway for 8 years. however, after all this time, there is no convincing evidence that this legal solution has reduced the number of sex workers and victims of forced sex work exploited by human trafficking. however, there are many examples and studies that show that it has increased the vulnerability of sex workers, contributed to their stigmatization, and reduced their access to health and justice. more and more large and well-known organizations are protesting this solution, citing these studies, arguing for alternative solutions to reduce demand. so, criminalizing demand not only failed to achieve the desired goal of reducing demand, but it also made people who were already on the black market even more vulnerable, forcing them to work in a much more dangerous environment, exposed to abuse and harassment. this is particularly worrying because these people are already living on the margins of society. the european parliament has a duty to protect the human rights of all europeans, including sex workers.
in writing. ‒ in order to avoid any contradiction with my duty as vice-president of the european people's party in relation to the resolution, as the fidesz people's party delegation voted differently from the political group, i did not participate directly in the vote. i did not press the ballot button, but i did raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that had been agreed upon previously.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the report, which gives a comprehensive, realistic picture of the state of implementation of the eu trafficking in human beings directive adopted in 2011 on the basis of the obligation to report regularly to the commission under the directive . i consider it important that the report looks at the 'gender' implications of the issue from several perspectives, particularly the situation of women who are particularly vulnerable to trafficking. i also appreciate that the report responds to current developments in the refugee crisis by highlighting the overlap between the dangers of trafficking in human beings and human smuggling, in which refugees and migrants in general are also the target groups most exposed to the activities of traffickers. the situation assessment of the report also indicates that the protection and assistance of victims should be given greater prominence in the future as one of the objectives highlighted in the directive. in the spirit of the resolution, i am convinced that the european parliament must continue to pay close attention to the alarming spread of international trafficking in human beings and to fight these serious crimes with all the political tools at its disposal.
mr. president, i've been looking forward to this debate. i couldn't believe my eyes when i saw on the agenda that there would be foreign currency loans. well, i'm telling you, it looks like they've finally opened their hearts. these eurocrats are sick of receiving hundreds of letters a day from the relatives of victims of currency fraud who have committed suicide. they are tired of seeing that while we live in europe, like the poorest countries, a multitude of people are forced into debt slavery, losing their homes, becoming physically and mentally ill, families are destroyed, human destinies are destroyed. they're finally coming up with a solution! they are talking about everything, they are thinking about everything, they have decided to do something good for the people of europe and they will be pushing for a solution. turns out not! they want to bring a default lawsuit against croatia for the croatian state siding with the people, siding with the victims of foreign currency loans against the banks. hurray for croatia! it is a disgrace and a disgrace what you, the european union, are doing. you're intertwined with organized criminal networks, economic criminals, you as political criminals form a total mafia. how dare you look in the mirror? shame on you. and you, mr. commissioner, tell us what your vision is for the people, because we already know that you want to support and save the banks. i'm waiting to see what your intentions are with the humans.
in writing. the digital single market offers european citizens and businesses the opportunity to move freely in the digital world within the eu member states, to access or to provide online services without barriers, while respecting fair competition, high consumer protection and data protection rules. however, despite the digital revolution, many, especially smes and traditional industrial sectors, have not yet fully adapted to the demands of the digital world. the commission's digital market strategy for europe, which provides a single and comprehensive regulatory framework, is therefore important and welcome. the development of digital literacy is therefore important throughout europe, and especially for hungary, which is very poorly positioned in europe in this area. at the same time, today in hungary, the public debate is more about the total failure of public education, rather than about how to improve the digital skills of young people. for months, the hungarian teachers' society, high school and university students, parents and civilians who have expressed solidarity with them have been demanding without result the transformation of the dysfunctional education system and the beginning of a constructive dialogue about it. this may seem to be a problem for individual member states, but it warns that the viability of individual education systems to develop digital skills with eu support should be examined more closely if the commission's strategy is to be realised.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you have given sufficient emphasis to economic issues. but do you not think that this meeting, this meeting, could be a unique opportunity for europe to understand with the major economic powers that what europe really needs now is solidarity? not least because it's a bit perceived by others as a european problem in terms of migration issues. so, i ask you, do you see the possibility that this event is about solidarity?
we should be glad that the g7 summit has the migrant crisis on the agenda. and they emphasize that the vice-president of the commission, the press statements, they say that this is a global problem. that's right. but what do we consider a task? the declaration lists the financial burdens of the european union. but it is not enough that global partners contribute to this on a solidarity basis. this is about responsibility. primarily, the responsibility of the united states, which, through its armed attempt to export western democracy, created the arab spring that plunged this region into anarchy and contributed fundamentally to this flood of migrants. so yes, this call for accountability is needed, and the united states has a way of using saudi arabia and the rich gulf states to make it possible for refugees not to come to europe.
it's a two-card draw. it has been said on several occasions in today's debate that the special situation of data excludes data protection and any legislation and procedure from the normal commercial flow of goods, even though we know the issue of theft and its consequences in the normal commercial flow. do you think that this convention provides the guarantees that misuse of data is also a criminal offence?
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for this opportunity, madam president. the congressman will have to answer for that. in that case, you've driven a very nice time-slot to approximate what's expected. but i don't recall a case like that being heard in this courtroom. and always, always, always, some industrial interest was in the background. how do you think you're going to stand up to this lobbyist? because i think the frequency of this is more than we can handle right now.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. your words almost completely echoed those of commissioner šefčovič. however, when i think of the country i know best - my own country, hungary - things go in a completely different direction. one piece of the government will take over virtually all of the energy supply, eliminating competition and no development. what would you advise the commission to do? how can we implement the decisions we make here with the member countries?
i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 26 may 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the ongoing energy transition from a fossil-based energy system to one based on renewable energy should result in stable, sustainable, affordable energy, energy-efficient products and housing, and a consumer-friendly energy market for citizens. the most effective and efficient way to increase the security of supply, which is so important for hungary, is to reduce consumption and to treat energy saving and energy efficiency as a priority. the present parliament's proposal places a strong emphasis on energy efficiency, consumer protection against unfair practices and increased transparency and publicity of invoices. as a country with a low dependence on economically recoverable fossil fuels and an export orientation, it is particularly important for our country to reduce energy consumption through energy efficiency measures, the use of innovative technologies and the development of a targeted approach, and the environmental awareness of social actors. sustainable and secure energy systems must be established, which also enhance the competitiveness of the economy. all these measures have other positive effects besides energy savings resulting in a healthier environment and quality of life, and greater energy independence.
in writing. the new energy guideline for consumers report is an important milestone in the achievement of the energy union's objectives. providing stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy is a primary interest of citizens. the development of consumer-friendly, competitive and well-functioning energy markets is key and full implementation of the third energy package is essential to achieve these objectives. as the report emphasises, adequate consumer information is a prerequisite for energy-saving behaviour. as a result, it is in our common interest to improve the transparency of invoices and to ensure the comparability of service invoices, as this may even lead to lower maintenance costs. it is particularly practical for consumers to be provided with up-to-date and understandable comparison tools, to create interfaces, to be informed about these possibilities. the provision of a switch to another provider is a fundamental condition for competition. although i do not agree with every point in the report, the direction is good and should be supported.
in writing. – energy poverty affects a large share of the world’s population. within the eu 11% of the population is not able to adequately heat their homes at an affordable cost and energy poverty affects around 54 million people (2012 figures). the problem is particularly prevalent in central, eastern and southern europe. at the global scale the climate agreement achieved in paris as well as the sustainable development goals adopted last autumn (sdg 7 in particular, ‘ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all’) contribute to an enhanced cooperation in this field. yet the eu should make sure these global commitments are translated into actions. combatting energy poverty requires a complex and pragmatic approach. many eu member states do not assess energy poverty properly, they do not even identify vulnerable consumers, making it impossible to adequately target measures. energy efficiency improvements in low-income and vulnerable households should be strongly incentivized. raising awareness and enabling informed decisions would be also important. besides, the european commission should allocate a much higher share of eu funds to energy efficiency programmes for vulnerable, energy-poor households and it should provide recommendations to its member states on improved monitoring and on specific energy poverty measures.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the elimination of energy poverty is one of the most pressing challenges facing europe in the 21st century. while in europe about 50 million people live in energy poverty, in hungary, statistics show that every fifth household, or up to two million people, live in energy poverty. this situation is unsustainable and has not been resolved by the official pricing policy in hungary, i.e. the policy of reducing vat. the average hungarian household uses almost twice as much energy per square metre as the eu average. according to these figures, the energy poverty of a quarter of hungarian households is not caused by high energy prices relative to income per se, but to a significant extent by the low level of energy efficiency of buildings. we need to change that now. it is unacceptable that in 2016 someone cannot heat their home, bathe in cold water, turn on their reading lamp or charge their mobile phone. i therefore believe that we must guarantee in eu legislation the basic right to energy, the minimum energy service, which is a basic right for all citizens. at the same time, we need well-targeted social energy tariffs for those most in need. the medium-term solution is to start self-generating energy in otthoni, to support the deployment of domestic wind turbines and solar panels, and to support large-scale energy efficiency improvement programmes.
the following is a brief summary of the maria arena report: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
this report presents a number of hard facts which demonstrate that women are the most vulnerable group in society, also in terms of social deprivation, and are exposed to many forms of discrimination. i myself have previously taken initiatives to ensure that women, alongside other groups particularly exposed to crime such as children and the elderly, are automatically given priority protection throughout the union from a police and judicial point of view. in the spirit of today's debate, i think it is appropriate to apply this type of preference in the social and labour field with a similar naturalness and automaticity. in view of the many similarities in facts and arguments, it would be worthwhile to join our efforts.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 26 may 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is a summary of the daniel dalton report: non-tariff barriers to the single market (2015/2346 (ini)) (a8-0160/2016).
this report has made us aware that the obstacles to the removal of non-tariff barriers are governments serving the interests of producers with a high degree of economic and political influence, who often regard the arbitrary use of non-tariff barriers as a kind of political, tactical tool. of course, the principle of common sense and subsidiarity also requires that, where appropriate, non-tariff instruments should be allowed to be used in the future, in a timeframe and in a place. however, it is time to put the interests of local smes and consumers across the eu first and promote healthy, quality and price competition in this context. the frustrating decades-long lag in reducing non-tariff barriers can only be overcome by such a socially and politically sound trade policy approach.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 26 may 2016. the following shall be added to the list of the member states:
the following is a summary of the report by mr jakob von weizsäcker: virtual currencies (2016/2007 (ini)) (a8-0168/2016).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 26 may 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the one-minute oral questions on important political questions (rule 163).
madam president, many europeans believe that corruption seriously harms the economy and society. another common thing in these reports before us is that they all point to public procurement as the field that is particularly prone to corruption in the eu countries. hungary, where one can witness cronyism at its finest, is a perfect example to demonstrate this problem. in this country, even the eu fund that was awarded to government agencies to fight corruption was misused. let us take one egregious example from hungary. the governor of the hungarian national bank created six foundations through which he funnelled almost eur 1 billion to companies of family members and friends. the whole orbán government, and even the chief prosecutor of hungary, are involved in this criminal scheme. no wonder, then, that they will not be prosecuted in hungary. although the european central bank has expressed its concern, being concerned is not enough.
that concludes the agenda item.
as we have seen, market liberalisation in the dairy sector has unfortunately not produced the results that so many of us had hoped for. there are many reasons for this, but i would like to highlight two. the first is the question of unfair trading practices in the food chain, in the market chain, in the production chain, and the second is the question of the different rates of vat, i.e. the rate of value added tax. i think, and i have tried to suggest this on several occasions, that a uniform reduction in the vat on foodstuffs, and in particular on basic foodstuffs, would be a good thing to want in the european union. just because this has two consequences, each supported by empirical facts, is to be expected. one is that fiscal revenues would increase in all countries, since the rate of vat fraud would be greatly reduced. and consumers would also benefit, given that food would be cheaper everywhere. that is why i propose, madam president, that we think about, consider, the possibility of applying a maximum vat rate of 5% to food in the european union.
in writing. - my dear officer. you, among others, cite the negligence of the member states, the non-payment of last year's rescue package, as the reason for the worsening situation on the european milk market. first of all, i'd like to inform you that 99.6 percent of the nearly 3 billion forints we're owed from the 500 million euro rescue package has already been paid by the hungarian government to farmers, who are also receiving an additional 11.5 billion forints of national aid. the government will reduce the excise duty on milk from producers to 5% from 2017. but the crisis must be resolved first and foremost here in brussels. the measures taken so far are good, but they have not helped to bring down producer prices. in my view, this can only be achieved by raising the intervention price to the level of the cost of production. please tell me what you think of my proposal that in return for the increase in the intervention price, milk producers offering intervention would undertake to withdraw an additional quantity of milk free of charge, up to the quantity offered, by giving this milk, milk powder, butter and cheese to charity and relief within the eu. would this approach work if the intervention mechanism were modified as described above?
in writing. i consider the new strategy for the european union's internal market to be a very important report, as i believe that the proposals it contains can help to realise the potential of the single market and can serve as a good starting point for europe to succeed in the global economic arena. with today's ambitious and practical strategy, we're focused on results. the next step is for the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to work towards implementing these concrete measures as quickly as possible. in my view, every effort should be made to ensure that consumers who wish to buy services or products in another member state, whether they buy online or in person, do not have to face different prices, changing sales conditions, different delivery methods, unless this can be justified by objective and verifiable arguments. the european commission and the european consumer centre often receive complaints alleging that consumers have been unfairly treated differently on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this practice should be discontinued in the future. the reduction of investment restrictive measures and the creation of new opportunities for consumers, professionals and businesses must continue. the single market must keep pace with change and therefore encourage and embrace innovative new business models.
in writing. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i welcome the fact that the single market strategy supports the closure of the eu legal loopholes on non-discrimination, in particular with regard to persons with disabilities. i would like to stress that directive 2000/78/ec establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation should be implemented without delay. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital skills and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital skills. in my view, training and education in information and communication technologies and in science, technology, engineering and mathematics should be encouraged in order to equip both current and future workers with the relevant digital skills. i stress the need for inclusive education, which includes people with disabilities, because it also helps people with disabilities to integrate into the workplace and society. in my view, public expenditure on education is key to maintaining the eu's competitiveness and workforce in the medium term and member states should be encouraged to invest in digital education and skills.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the rapidly expanding virtual currencies, of which bitcoin is the best-known example, and proposes that the commission establish a working group to study this. seven years after the launch of bitcoin, the first and most widely used virtual currency, it has become clear that the underlying innovation, shared ledger technology, is having a significant impact on the financial sector and beyond. this technology should allow for the decentralised, fast, reliable and relatively secure recording of any transaction together with the history of previous transactions in a shared ledger. increasingly, investment is being made in shared accounting technology and certain applications can quickly become system-wide. however, as the committee on the internal market and consumer protection points out, the use of virtual currencies carries potential risks to the financial system, both in terms of regulation and market surveillance and security, and may pose a threat to financial integrity and effective financial regulation. the spread of virtual currencies may increase the risks to financial stability. since the report merely proposes the creation of a working group to study the internet currency called virtual money, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are innovative products, an opportunity to be seized, but as a novelty, we must be very careful about how we regulate them. the closest i can draw to comparing bitcoin to uber is that both are new, both are popular tools for our citizens, but both are dangerous. the first problem is that it has generated opposition among its traditional peers, and the second is that the national bodies have not yet been able to keep up with the pace of regulation. these factors weaken these products, including the largest virtual currency player, bitcoin, which is also mentioned in the report. i am convinced that virtual exchanges can offer the internal market further opportunities for development and can certainly be useful as a means of functioning as a basic account or as a facilitator of online purchases. of course, it is very important that we give our consumers a proper guarantee of the safety of the product. i believe that the issue and regulation of virtual exchanges should be manageable. it is important to consider the possibilities of technological progress, and the rapporteur has done a great job on this, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are innovative products, an opportunity to be seized, but as a novelty, we must be very careful about how we regulate them. bitcoin is the closest thing i can think of to uber, both are new things, both are popular tools for our citizens, but both are dangerous. the first problem is that it has generated opposition among its traditional peers, and the second is that the national bodies have not yet been able to keep up with the pace of regulation. these factors weaken these products, including the largest virtual currency player, bitcoin, which is also mentioned in the report. i am convinced that virtual exchanges can offer the internal market further opportunities for development and can certainly be useful as a means of functioning as a basic account or as a facilitator of online purchases. of course, it is very important that we give our consumers a proper guarantee of the safety of the product. i believe that the issue and regulation of virtual exchanges should be manageable. it's important that we consider the possibilities of technological advancement. the rapporteur has done a great job on this, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. virtual currencies are innovative products, an opportunity to be seized, but as they are new, we need to be very careful about how they are regulated. bitcoin is the closest thing i can think of to uber, both are new things, both are popular tools for our citizens, but both are dangerous. the first problem is that it has generated opposition among its traditional peers, and the second is that the national bodies have not yet been able to keep up with the pace of regulation. these factors weaken these products, including the largest virtual currency player, bitcoin, which is also mentioned in the report. i am convinced that virtual exchanges can offer the internal market further opportunities for development and can certainly be useful as a means of functioning as a basic account or as a facilitator of online purchases. of course, it is very important that we give our consumers a proper guarantee of the safety of the product. i believe that the issue and regulation of virtual exchanges should be manageable. it's important that we consider the possibilities of technological advancement. the rapporteur has done a great job on this, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are innovative products, an opportunity to be seized, but as a novelty, we must be very careful about how we regulate them. bitcoin is the closest thing i can think of to uber, both are new things, both are popular tools for our citizens, but both are dangerous. the first problem is that it has generated opposition among its traditional peers, and the second is that the national bodies have not yet been able to keep up with the pace of regulation. these factors weaken these products, including the largest virtual currency player, bitcoin, which is also mentioned in the report. i am convinced that virtual exchanges can offer the internal market further opportunities for development and can certainly be useful as a means of functioning as a basic account or as a facilitator of online purchases. of course, it is very important that we give our consumers a proper guarantee of the safety of the product. i believe that the issue and regulation of virtual exchanges should be manageable. it's important that we consider the possibilities of technological advancement. the rapporteur has done a great job on this, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are innovative products, an opportunity to be seized, but as a novelty, we must be very careful about how we regulate them. the case of bitcoin is the closest thing i can think of to uber. both are new, both are popular tools among our citizens, but both are dangerous. the first problem is that it has generated opposition among its traditional peers, and the second is that the national bodies have not yet been able to keep up with the pace of regulation. these factors weaken these products, including the largest virtual currency player, bitcoin, which is also mentioned in the report. i am convinced that virtual exchanges can offer the internal market further opportunities for development and can certainly be useful as a means of functioning as a basic account or as a facilitator of online purchases. of course, it is very important that we give our consumers a proper guarantee of the safety of the product. i believe that the issue and regulation of virtual currencies should be manageable. it is important to consider the possibilities of technical progress, and the rapporteur has done a great job on this, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are innovative products, an opportunity to be seized, but as a novelty, we must be very careful about how we regulate them. bitcoin is the closest thing i can think of to uber, both are new things, both are popular tools for our citizens, but both are dangerous. the first problem is that it has generated opposition among its traditional peers, and the second is that the national bodies have not yet been able to keep up with the pace of regulation. these factors weaken these products, including the largest virtual currency player, bitcoin, which is also mentioned in the report. i am convinced that virtual exchanges can offer the internal market further opportunities for development and can certainly be useful as a means of functioning as a basic account or as a facilitator of online purchases. of course, it is very important that we give our consumers a proper guarantee of the safety of the product. i believe that the issue and regulation of virtual exchanges should be manageable. it's important that we consider the possibilities of technological advancement. the rapporteur has done a great job on this, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are innovative products, an opportunity to be seized, but as a novelty, we must be very careful about how we regulate them. bitcoin is the closest thing i can think of to uber, both are new things, both are popular tools for our citizens, but both are dangerous. the first problem is that it has generated opposition among its traditional peers, and the second is that the national bodies have not yet been able to keep up with the pace of regulation. these factors weaken these products, including the largest virtual currency player, bitcoin, which is also mentioned in the report. i am convinced that virtual exchanges can offer the internal market further opportunities for development and can certainly be useful as a means of functioning as a basic account or as a facilitator of online purchases. of course, it is very important that we give our consumers a proper guarantee of the safety of the product. i believe that the issue and regulation of virtual exchanges should be manageable. it's important that we consider the possibilities of technological advancement. the rapporteur has done a great job on this, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. virtual currencies operate in a crossfire of often conflicting opinions. the eu has no position of its own, although this rapidly expanding technology allows any transaction to be carried out in a decentralised, reliable, fast and secure manner, with a record of previous transactions. the report simply calls for the commission to set up a working group to study virtual currencies, which is a small but welcome step. this approach may lead to more competitive transaction costs within the single market in the near future, but the use of virtual currencies may also entail potential risks. it is certainly timely to review the new technology in more detail.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs points out that transaction costs for payments remain surprisingly high, while virtual currencies and shared accounting technology offer the potential to reduce these transaction costs, are easy to use and provide a reliable and variable level of confidentiality. however, some risks are already apparent, such as the use of certain applications for criminal purposes, including money laundering or terrorist financing, and further risks may be identified with wider adoption. the report therefore calls for smart regulation to address risks, where appropriate, before they become systemic. the report therefore proposes the creation of a horizontal working group on shared accounting technology, chaired by the commission. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on virtual currencies, which gives a balanced picture of virtual currencies as an alternative to currencies in circulation. i believe it is appropriate that the rapporteur draws attention to the potential risks inherent in virtual currencies and shared accounting technology, such as terrorist financing, money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance, and to the risks that virtual currency holders may face, such as theft of virtual currencies, hacking or software/hardware malfunctioning. at the same time, the report highlights the benefits of this relatively new currency and the additional opportunities it offers. i agree with the extension of the scope of the aml directive to virtual currency trading platforms and support the proposal that the commission should carry out a comprehensive analysis of virtual currencies and, on the basis of this analysis, consider revising, if necessary, the eu legislation on payments, thereby helping to strengthen competition and reduce transaction costs. i also support the establishment of a coherent and comprehensive eu-wide strategy on virtual currencies and technologies that protects against the risks listed but does not hinder innovation or distort markets. finally, i particularly welcome the fact that the report has highlighted the importance of raising consumer awareness.
in writing. ‒ seven years after the launch of bitcoin, the first and most widely used virtual currency, it has become clear that the underlying innovation, shared ledger technology, is having a significant impact on the financial sector and beyond. increasingly, investment is being made in shared accounting technology and certain applications can quickly become system-wide. while there are still some questions about the extent of the current technological transformation, the enormous potential and the not-to-be-neglected risks make it timely for the european parliament to present its first report on virtual currencies and shared ledger technology. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. france has submitted an application to mobilise the egf, under the reference number egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal, for a financial contribution from the egf. the commission has examined the application and found that it complies with the requirements of the relevant regulation, and i have therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. following redundancies at moryglobal sas, the french authorities submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf under the reference number egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal. following the evaluation of the application, the commission has concluded that, in accordance with all the relevant provisions of the egf regulation, the conditions for granting a financial contribution from the egf are met. the request concerns 2 132 workers made redundant by moryglobal sas. the amount requested is eur 5 146 800. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request from france to mobilise the egf. the union has established legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns or as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, and to support their reintegration into the labour market. in the interests of european workers, workers who have been put in a difficult situation by the crisis should be given the possibility to take corrective measures to reposition them on the labour market. i agree with the rapporteur that france's request is justified, since the situation of the workers concerned was caused by the bankruptcy and liquidation of the undertaking. france has launched the social plan, in which moryglobal is also financially involved, before receiving the additional egf support. the redundancies at moryglobal are linked to the general decline in production in europe, which has led to a decrease in the volumes to be transported and a price war in the road transport sector.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the commission has now proposed, at the request of france, the mobilisation of eur 5 146 800 from the fund to help resolve the situation of 2 132 workers made redundant following the judicial winding-up of moryglobal, a company engaged in the provision of services in the field of land and pipeline transport and ancillary services in the field of storage and transport. the report concludes that the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (a) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 of the european parliament and of the council are met and that france is therefore entitled to that financial contribution. it therefore proposes that parliament contribute to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund within the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, in the amount of eur 5 146 800, in the form of commitment and payment appropriations. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. in this case, more than 2,000 jobs are at stake, and i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. greece has submitted an application to mobilise the egf, under the reference number egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa, for a financial contribution from the egf. the commission has examined the application and found that it complies with the requirements of the relevant regulation, and i have therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. in greece, redundancies occurred at supermarket larissa abee, following which the greek authorities submitted an application on 26 november 2015 for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa. following the evaluation of the application, the commission has concluded that, in accordance with all the relevant provisions of the egf regulation, the conditions for granting a financial contribution from the egf are met. the claim concerns 557 workers made redundant by supermarket larissa abee, the amount claimed being eur 6 468 000. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the request from greece to mobilise the egf. the union has established legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns or as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, and to support their reintegration into the labour market. in the interests of european workers, workers who have been put in a difficult situation by the crisis should be given the possibility to take corrective measures to reposition them on the labour market. the redundancies in the retail sector in the province of larissa, greece, are expected to affect 557 workers and 543 unemployed young people under 30 years of age who are not in training or education in the regions mentioned above. it should be noted that this situation was also contributed by the drastic decline in corporate lending in an environment where the quantitative easing implemented by the ecb was unable to trigger lending. this case is the dramatic result of the continuing pressure of the creditors on greece and the european austerity policy.
in writing. i have repeatedly complained that the european globalisation adjustment fund is being used to help companies in rich core countries, often their large multinationals. in this case, however, the aid is well-targeted, because it helps the unemployed employees of the local company in the periphery.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the commission has now proposed, at the request of greece, the mobilisation of 6 468 000 from the fund to help resolve the situation of 557 workers made redundant in central macedonia and thessaly following the bankruptcy of the supermarket larissza, which sells motor vehicles and non-motorcycle goods, and of 543 unemployed young people under 30 who are not in education or training in the same region. the report concludes that the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (a) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 of the european parliament and of the council are met and that greece is therefore entitled to that financial contribution. it therefore proposes that parliament contribute to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund within the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, in the amount of eur 6 468 000, in the form of commitment and payment appropriations. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. in this case, there are just over 500 jobs, most of them filled by women. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ my colleague gianluca buonanno has launched a criminal case in italy in connection with allegedly receiving threatening calls to his mobile phone number from an unknown caller on 14 april 2015. the deputy public prosecutor of the court of versailles forwarded to the european parliament a request to the investigating authority to have access to the traffic data of his mobile phone number for that day. i have adopted a decision to suspend my colleague's immunity in the interests of legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ the deputy public prosecutor of the vercelli ordinary court has requested permission to obtain from telephone companies the traffic data of a telephone number used by gianluca buonanno, member of the european parliament elected in italy. according to the representative, on 14 april 2015 he received threatening calls to his mobile phone number from an unknown caller, the data to obtain which is necessary for the criminal proceedings initiated in this regard. the deputy public prosecutor also considers that it is not clear whether the privilege of parliament requiring parliament's authorisation to obtain members' telephone data applies to cases where a member of parliament is the alleged victim of a criminal offence, but nevertheless considers that, under the most appropriate interpretation of the law, this privilege is granted to members of parliament irrespective of their procedural status. in its report, the committee on legal affairs considers that, in the interests of legal certainty, it is prudent to accept this interpretation and to accede to the deputy public prosecutor's request, and therefore proposes that the parliament suspend gianluca buonanno's immunity in the present case. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the deputy public prosecutor of the vercelli ordinary court forwarded a request for permission to obtain traffic data from telephone companies on a telephone number used by gianluca buonanno, mep elected in italy, in the context of a criminal case, because the mep allegedly received threatening calls to his mobile phone number from an unknown caller. the request for suspension of immunity is aimed at allowing the investigating authority access to the traffic data of the representative's mobile phone number for the day on which the representative allegedly received threatening calls. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the exemption of sweden in accordance with article 9 of the decision on transitional measures adopted in favour of italy and greece in the field of international protection, because this exemption also proves that the transitional measures adopted in the original decision, the mandatory allocation of quotas to migrants, are not suitable to address the problem. the system created by the decision is not working, migrants are going to countries that pay higher social security contributions, like sweden, regardless of the distribution according to quotas. to date, it has not been possible to distribute more than a few hundred migrants instead of the targeted tens of thousands due to systemic deficiencies and these transitional measures should be suspended as soon as possible and all member states should be exempted from the mandatory allocation mechanism under quotas.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party delegation supported the exemption of sweden in accordance with article 9 of the decision on transitional measures for italy and greece in the field of international protection, because this exemption also proves that the transitional measures adopted in the original decision, the mandatory allocation of quotas to migrants, are not suitable to address the problem. the system created by the decision is not working, migrants are going to countries that pay higher social security contributions, like sweden, regardless of the distribution according to quotas. to date, it has not been possible to distribute more than a few hundred migrants instead of the targeted tens of thousands due to systemic deficiencies and these transitional measures should be suspended as soon as possible and all member states should be exempted from the mandatory allocation mechanism under quotas.
in writing. the hungarian delegation of the people's party supported the exemption of sweden in accordance with article 9 of the decision on transitional measures for italy and greece in the field of international protection, because this exemption also proves that the transitional measures adopted in the original decision, the mandatory allocation of quotas to migrants, are not suitable to address the problem. the system created by the decision is not working, migrants are going to countries that pay higher social security contributions, like sweden, regardless of the distribution according to quotas. to date, it has not been possible to distribute more than a few hundred migrants instead of the targeted tens of thousands due to systemic deficiencies and these transitional measures should be suspended as soon as possible and all member states should be exempted from the mandatory allocation mechanism under quotas.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party delegation supported the exemption of sweden in accordance with article 9 of the decision on transitional measures for italy and greece in the field of international protection, because this exemption also proves that the transitional measures adopted in the original decision, the mandatory allocation of quotas to migrants, are not suitable to address the problem. the system created by the decision is not working, migrants are going to countries that pay higher social security contributions, like sweden, regardless of the distribution according to quotas. to date, it has not been possible to distribute more than a few hundred migrants instead of the targeted tens of thousands due to systemic deficiencies and these transitional measures should be suspended as soon as possible and all member states should be exempted from the mandatory allocation mechanism under quotas.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party delegation supported the exemption of sweden in accordance with article 9 of the decision on transitional measures for italy and greece in the field of international protection, because this exemption also proves that the transitional measures adopted in the original decision, the mandatory allocation of quotas to migrants, are not suitable to address the problem. the system created by the decision is not working, migrants are going to countries that pay higher social security contributions, like sweden, regardless of the distribution according to quotas. to date, it has not been possible to distribute more than a few hundred migrants instead of the targeted tens of thousands due to systemic deficiencies, and therefore these transitional measures should be suspended as soon as possible, exempting all member states from the mandatory allocation mechanism under quotas.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the suspension of sweden's obligations in relation to the management of the migration crisis. recently, like my country, hungary, sweden has faced an emergency situation that is increasingly influenced by the influx of migrants and is less and less able to meet its eu obligations. in march 2016, it received a total of 107 104 applicants, including 73 331 children.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party delegation supported the exemption of sweden in accordance with article 9 of the decision on transitional measures for italy and greece in the field of international protection, because this exemption also proves that the transitional measures adopted in the original decision, the mandatory allocation of quotas to migrants, are not suitable to address the problem. the system created by the decision is not working, migrants are going to countries that pay higher social security contributions, like sweden, regardless of the distribution according to quotas. to date, it has not been possible to distribute more than a few hundred migrants instead of the targeted tens of thousands due to systemic deficiencies and these transitional measures should be suspended as soon as possible and all member states should be exempted from the mandatory allocation mechanism under quotas.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party delegation supported the exemption of sweden in accordance with article 9 of the decision on transitional measures for italy and greece in the field of international protection, because this exemption also proves that the transitional measures adopted in the original decision, the mandatory allocation of quotas to migrants, are not suitable to address the problem. the system created by the decision is not working, migrants are going to countries that pay higher social security contributions, like sweden, regardless of the distribution according to quotas. to date, more than a few hundred migrants have not been distributed instead of the targeted tens of thousands due to systemic deficiencies, and these transitional measures should therefore be suspended as soon as possible and all member states should be exempted from the mandatory allocation mechanism under quotas.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the council a decision establishing transitional measures in the field of international protection adopted in the interest of sweden. the treaty on the functioning of the european union requires the commission to consult the council before taking a decision. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament approve the commission proposal with three amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party delegation supported the exemption of sweden in accordance with article 9 of the decision on transitional measures for italy and greece in the field of international protection, because this exemption also proves that the transitional measures adopted in the original decision, the mandatory allocation of quotas to migrants, are not suitable to address the problem. the system created by the decision is not working, migrants are going to countries that pay higher social security contributions, like sweden, regardless of the distribution according to quotas. to date, it has not been possible to distribute more than a few hundred migrants instead of the targeted tens of thousands due to systemic deficiencies and these transitional measures should be suspended as soon as possible and all member states should be exempted from the mandatory allocation mechanism under quotas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the keller report, given that it does not propose to grant sweden a one-year transitional derogation from the quota system for the relocation of refugees arriving in europe, as proposed by the commission in december 2015. i considered the fact that sweden has undoubtedly undertaken a significant burden in terms of hosting refugees compared to many other member states, but that other member states, mainly in the south, have been facing an even more severe situation for a longer period, while the increase in sweden's burden - taking into account the country's financial capacity - is actually below the crisis level. moreover, as a hungarian opposition representative, i had to be particularly careful in this decision to ensure that such a concession could not set a precedent for breaching the eu solidarity requirement, because it could serve as a concrete reference basis for the current refugee and anti-eu campaign of the hungarian government. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the situation of persons who are in need of international protection, in particular on the situation of persons who are in need of international protection, and on the situation of persons who are in need of international protection.
in writing. ‒ sweden has also been facing an emergency situation in the recent past, characterised by a sudden influx of third-country nationals into the country due to a significant change in migration flows. i supported the document in question in line with the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ the eu-us safe harbour convention was repealed by the european court of justice in its judgment of 6 october 2015. the court found that the convention did not provide adequate protection of the data of eu citizens, did not prevent mass surveillance and did not provide for adequate judicial redress against it. the european commission and the us authorities have been working together on a new agreement called the privacy shield. the agreement also aims to prevent national authorities from imposing rules that would prevent the transfer of personal data of eu citizens to the us after the abolition of safe harbour. this intention must be regarded as a restriction of national self-determination. the basic objection is that the ombudsman designated by the us in the draft treaty is not an institution adequate to provide an impartial remedy in the event of a conflict between the us authorities and eu citizens. analysis by civil society organizations suggests that the new contract could also contribute to the mass collection of data by the us intelligence community. the concerns listed in the joint motion for a resolution are mentioned only by way of reference and not as a specific requirement. support for the decision thus signifies that parliament agrees to the conclusion of the agreement in question. i therefore voted against the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by my group colleagues. the protection of personal data, respect for privacy and private communications, the right to security, the right to know and to be informed and the right to conduct a business are all fundamental rights which, under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the eu must protect and balance within the community. transatlantic data flows provide opportunities for the us and the eu to expand trade and investment in the developing world. with the global growth of internet access, we need to focus on the opportunities for online international trade and the need for free data flows. moreover, data flows create new opportunities for smes to participate adequately in international trade and to better access new markets on other continents. the commission should be able to take into account the specific circumstances of the case, including the need to ensure that the data subject is protected in accordance with the law of the member state concerned.
in writing. ‒ the verts/ale, ppe, efdd, s&d, gue/ngl, ecr and alde groups have tabled a motion for a european parliament resolution on the subject. five of them, the epp, the efdd, the s&d, the ecr and alde, reached an agreement and adopted a compromise proposal. i abstained because i agree with the agreement reached between the european commission and the united states government, which does not require any further changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a joint resolution on transatlantic data flows. like the motion, i welcome the commission's work on a new data protection shield for transatlantic data flows. i agree that transatlantic relations remain of paramount importance to the parties, but at the same time the right of citizens to the protection of their personal data in the european union is unquestionable and cannot be infringed by the transfer of their data to third parties. i support the call in the motion for the commission to fully implement the recommendations of the article 29 working party on the privacy shield decision. i agree with the motion and believe that legal certainty on the protection of personal data moving between the eu and the us is also the basis for consumer confidence, transatlantic business development and law enforcement cooperation. it is therefore essential to ensure that the means by which such data flows are made possible comply with both primary and secondary community law.
in writing. ‒ the development of the information society and electronic commerce, as well as the development of the interception capabilities of intelligence agencies at a global level, has led to an exponential increase in the movement of data and electronic communications, and the risk of misuse of such data and interception of such communications. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position on the related vote.
in writing. the new energy guideline for consumers report is an important milestone in the achievement of the energy union's objectives. providing stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy is a primary interest of citizens. the development of consumer-friendly, competitive and well-functioning energy markets is key and full implementation of the third energy package is essential to achieve these objectives. as the report emphasises, adequate consumer information is a prerequisite for energy-saving behaviour. as a result, it is in our common interest to improve the transparency of invoices and to ensure the comparability of service invoices, as this may even lead to lower maintenance costs. it is particularly practical for consumers to have up-to-date and understandable comparison tools, to have platforms, to be informed about these possibilities. the provision of a switch to another provider is a fundamental condition for competition. although i do not agree with every point in the report, the direction is good and should be supported.
in writing. ‒ the 'new energy policy for consumers' report is an important milestone in the achievement of the energy union's objectives. providing stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy is a primary interest of citizens. the development of consumer-friendly, competitive and well-functioning energy markets is key and full implementation of the third energy package is essential to achieve these objectives. as the report emphasises, adequate consumer information is a prerequisite for energy-saving behaviour. as a result, it is in our common interest to improve the transparency of invoices and to ensure the comparability of service invoices, as this may even lead to lower maintenance costs. it is particularly practical for consumers to have up-to-date and understandable comparison tools, to have platforms, to be informed about these possibilities. the provision of a switch to another provider is a fundamental condition for competition. although i do not agree with every point in the report, the direction is right and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr griffin, as the energy union must put the interests of present and future generations of citizens first and provide consumers with affordable and efficient energy and high quality energy-efficient products, services and buildings. however, in many member states market concentration is still high and the reduction in wholesale costs is often not reflected in retail prices. the commission should identify or develop further indicators for well-functioning consumer-friendly energy markets, taking into account the economic impact on energy consumers switching, technical barriers to switching or contracting, or levels of consumer awareness. in my view, market-determined prices are in the consumer's favour and network charges should therefore be designed to allow for a reasonable cost recovery and not to impede energy efficiency measures. the third energy package needs to be fully implemented, including the right to switch free of charge and improving consumer information on their rights.
in writing. today, renewable energy production is beginning to outgrow its childhood diseases, and technologies are available that are viable at the level of small communities, but also as a family investment. this report helps to create and harmonise the legal and economic regulatory framework which has hitherto hindered technical developments and should be supported. the modernisation and replacement of the main power plants cannot be ignored or even delayed any further, but local electricity production must be encouraged as a complementary factor to increase security of supply. however, from a network control point of view, small producers will be a major challenge due to the limited storage capacity.
in writing. ‒ the committee on industry, research and energy recommends that parliament welcomes the commission communication of 15 july 2015 entitled 'a new direction for energy consumers'. the report recalls that the ultimate goal should be to achieve an economy based on 100% renewable energy. to that end, the energy union should provide citizens with stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy and high-quality energy-efficient products, services and buildings; enable citizens to produce, consume, store and sell their own renewable energy, whether individually or collectively; contribute to the eradication of energy poverty; protect consumers from abusive, anti-competitive and unfair practices by market players; and create favourable conditions for a well-functioning and competitive internal energy market. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the 'new energy policy for consumers' report is an important milestone in the achievement of the energy union's objectives. providing stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy is a primary interest of citizens. the development of consumer-friendly, competitive and well-functioning energy markets is key and full implementation of the third energy package is essential to achieve these objectives. as the report emphasises, adequate consumer information is a prerequisite for energy-saving behaviour. as a result, it is in our common interest to improve the transparency of invoices and to ensure the comparability of service invoices, as this may even lead to lower maintenance costs. it is particularly practical for consumers to have up-to-date and understandable comparison tools, to have platforms, to be informed about these possibilities. the provision of a switch to another provider is a fundamental condition for competition. although i do not agree with every point in the report, the direction is good and should be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which contains clear statements on the fight against energy poverty. i think that all such cases should be looked at from the consumer's point of view, and this is well established in the report. the measure of energy poverty can currently be considered relative, as it cannot be fully measured. i agree that additional indicators for consumer-friendly energy markets should be defined, taking into account consumer protection considerations. the report clearly sought to create a well-functioning energy market that would benefit consumers, and it showed that the objectives of the third energy package have not yet been achieved in all countries. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. i agree with the call for the european commission to analyse the issue of aggressive tax planning and tax evasion in energy markets and to take regulatory action on the transparency and publicity of invoices and contracts. i think there's a way to solve energy poverty: decentralization, local generation, renewable energy. it is clear that member states have different capacities and therefore need common (and respected) principles and incentives. of course, the triad of research, development and innovation is essential in all of this! such measures would do more to help the public than the false-reduction propaganda on energy bills!
in writing. ‒ the energy union should provide citizens with stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy and high-quality, energy-efficient products, services and buildings. i voted in favour of the accompanying document.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis, from which the union is gradually recovering, has, according to statistical data, led to a dramatic increase in the number of people, both men and women, facing the threat of poverty and social exclusion. the latest statistical surveys available on income inequality in the eu show that 16.6% of the population of the eu-28 can be considered at risk of poverty, even when social benefits are taken into account. the risk rate was 17.2% for women and 16.1% for men. the gender pay gap and the pension gap are the result of the fragmentation of careers in an attempt to achieve a harmonious balance between work and private life. it is important that women receive equal pay for equal work and it is of the utmost importance that this principle is accepted and applied in practice. unfortunately, the report contains elements that urge steps towards the individualisation of rights in policies to ensure social equality (which may raise constitutional problems) or calls on the commission to develop proposals for the gender dimension of tax policy, which is a matter of national competence. equally absurd is the demand for the institution of joint pension rights for divorced or separated persons, or for additional rights and benefits for lgbti families. for all these reasons, i abstained on the motion, despite its positive elements.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities analyses the problem of poverty affecting women at a higher rate than the average. it points out that according to statistical surveys, 16.6% of the eu population can be considered at risk of poverty, a risk rate of 16.1% for men and 17.2% for women. in addition, certain groups of women - particularly single mothers, pensioners, immigrants or women with disabilities - are exposed to significantly higher levels of exposure than the average. it points out that two thirds of all working hours in the world are worked by women, who nevertheless earn only 10 percent of the world's income and own less than 1 percent of the world's wealth. the report sets out the efforts that the union and the member states should make to ensure that everyone, regardless of gender, has equal opportunities and opportunities in employment, social security, earning a living, education, childcare and culture. it also identifies the instruments that europe and the member states already have in place to tackle the trends that threaten to impoverish half the population. it stresses that combating women's poverty is, at least in part, a way to solve the long-term problem of child poverty. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, given that it provides a thorough analysis and lists some remarkable facts which demonstrate that women are the most vulnerable group in society, also in terms of social deprivation, and are exposed to many forms of discrimination. i am particularly concerned about the labour market situation and the marginalisation of women, which often takes place against the background of poverty. in connection with the report, i recalled that i had previously taken the initiative to ensure that women alongside other groups particularly exposed to crime such as children and the elderly automatically receive priority protection throughout the union from a police and judicial point of view. in the spirit of this debate and resolution, i believe that this type of preference should be applied with similar naturalness and automaticity in the social and labour field, and i will therefore, in my further work in parliament, seek to promote a better coordination of our various political and legislative efforts on gender equality, based on facts and arguments that are in many respects similar.
in writing. ‒ according to the latest eurostat data, the number of women living in poverty (currently 64.6 million) remains consistently higher than that of men living in poverty (currently 57.6 million). it shows that poverty affects women and men differently. for women, the risk of poverty in the eu-28 was particularly high in 2014, with a poverty rate of 46.6% for women without social benefits and 17.7% with social benefits. i voted in favour of the report on the agenda.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to remove the non-tariff barriers that exist in some member states and that restrict the free flow of services in particular. it is based on the assumption that the single market in services is estimated to represent some 70% of the european economy, but accounts for only around 20% of intra-union trade, and that is a small fraction. it stresses that the strengthening of the single market requires urgent action at both eu and member state level to remove these non-tariff barriers. i reject the whole thought process and intention. these non-tariff rules exist because each member state protects local society and entrepreneurs. the brussels centre does not assume the losses resulting from the dismantling of non-tariff barriers, which naturally primarily affect the less developed countries, since it is in the interest of the multinational companies of the centre countries to gain even more complete access to the services market. the dismantling of customs duties between six countries of similar development, which took about ten years at the beginning of integration, has been carried out very carefully, and now the member states with a highly heterogeneous economic and social structure, which has grown to 28 member states, want to impose uniform rules without first trying to bring each country to the same level through catch-up programmes. from all this, it's clear that i didn't support the report.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the union, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. this is confirmed by a study prepared for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which concludes that 'the completion of the single market will benefit a few businesses, namely the most competitive and innovative ones, but will serve the interests of all consumers through lower prices and increased choice'. it is therefore in the interest of all member states and the european parliament to continue to remove those non-tariff barriers throughout europe in the interests of consumers. the notification obligation laid down in the services directive is a good example of the fact that the actions taken by member states do not reflect their commitments. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the european commission can do more to ensure that these member states fulfil their commitments, but at the same time the member states themselves should also do more to keep their own promises. by cooperating and increasingly assessing each other's contribution to the single market, member states themselves can help to create a more competitive and open single market. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, and i am convinced that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the union, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. this is confirmed by a study prepared for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which concludes that 'the completion of the single market will benefit a few businesses, namely the most competitive and innovative ones, but will serve the interests of all consumers through lower prices and increased choice'. it is therefore in the interest of all member states and the european parliament to continue to remove those non-tariff barriers throughout europe in the interests of consumers. the notification obligation laid down in the services directive is a good example of the fact that the actions taken by member states do not reflect their commitments. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the european commission can do more to ensure that these member states fulfil their commitments, but at the same time the member states themselves should also do more to keep their own promises. by cooperating and increasing the frequency with which member states assess each other's contribution to the single market, they themselves can help to create a more competitive and open single market.
in writing. i supported the report, believing that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the union, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. this is confirmed by a study prepared for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which concludes that 'the completion of the single market will benefit a few businesses, namely the most competitive and innovative ones, but will serve the interests of all consumers through lower prices and increased choice'. it is therefore in the interest of all member states and the european parliament to continue to remove those non-tariff barriers throughout europe in the interests of consumers. the notification obligation laid down in the services directive is a good example of the fact that the actions taken by member states do not reflect their commitments. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the european commission can do more to ensure that these member states fulfil their commitments, but at the same time the member states themselves should also do more to keep their own promises. by cooperating and increasing the frequency with which member states assess each other's contribution to the single market, they themselves can help to create a more competitive and open single market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, and i am convinced that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the union, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. this is confirmed by a study prepared for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which concludes that 'the completion of the single market will benefit a few businesses, namely the most competitive and innovative ones, but will serve the interests of all consumers through lower prices and increased choice'. it is therefore in the interest of all member states and the european parliament to continue to remove those non-tariff barriers throughout europe in the interests of consumers. the notification obligation laid down in the services directive is a good example of the fact that the actions taken by member states do not reflect their commitments. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the european commission can do more to ensure that these member states fulfil their commitments, but at the same time the member states themselves should also do more to keep their own promises. by cooperating and increasing the frequency with which member states assess each other's contribution to the single market, they themselves can help to create a more competitive and open single market.
in writing. - i supported the report. i am convinced that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the union, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. this is confirmed by a study prepared for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which concludes that 'the completion of the single market will benefit a few businesses, namely the most competitive and innovative ones, but will serve the interests of all consumers through lower prices and increased choice'. it is therefore in the interest of all member states and the european parliament to continue to remove those non-tariff barriers throughout europe in the interests of consumers. the notification obligation laid down in the services directive is a good example of the fact that the actions taken by member states do not reflect their commitments. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the european commission can do more to ensure that these member states fulfil their commitments, but at the same time the member states themselves should also do more to keep their own promises. by cooperating and increasingly assessing each other's contribution to the single market, member states themselves can help to create a more competitive and open single market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, and i am convinced that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the union, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. this is confirmed by a study prepared for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which concludes that 'the completion of the single market will benefit a few businesses, namely the most competitive and innovative ones, but will serve the interests of all consumers through lower prices and increased choice'. it is therefore in the interest of all member states and the european parliament to continue to remove those non-tariff barriers throughout europe in the interests of consumers. the notification obligation laid down in the services directive is a good example of the fact that the actions taken by member states do not reflect their commitments. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the european commission can do more to ensure that these member states fulfil their commitments, but at the same time the member states themselves should also do more to keep their own promises. by cooperating and increasing the frequency with which member states assess each other's contribution to the single market, they themselves can help to create a more competitive and open single market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, and i am convinced that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the union, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. this is confirmed by a study prepared for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which concludes that 'the completion of the single market will benefit a few businesses, namely the most competitive and innovative ones, but will serve the interests of all consumers through lower prices and increased choice'. it is therefore in the interest of all member states and the european parliament to continue to remove those non-tariff barriers throughout europe in the interests of consumers. the notification obligation laid down in the services directive is a good example of the fact that the actions taken by member states do not reflect their commitments. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the european commission can do more to ensure that these member states fulfil their commitments, but at the same time the member states themselves should also do more to keep their own promises. by cooperating and increasing the frequency with which member states assess each other's contribution to the single market, they themselves can help to create a more competitive and open single market.
in writing. the report is highly unsportsmanlike, as if to say why should we have two separate events, the paralympics and the olympics, all competing for medals together. it is absolutely unacceptable, because these non-tariff rules are precisely designed to give individual member states a measure of protection for local society and businesses against the attacks of multinational companies. in the original spirit of integration, closure was a central aspect, for which the eu should now devote 5~7% of its gdp to closure in less developed regions. all that's forgotten today.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the single market is a major achievement. however, although customs barriers have been removed, businesses wishing to engage in cross-border trade or service activities in another member state may face a number of national regulations. the persistence of non-tariff barriers therefore hinders the full exploitation of the potential of the single market. the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection points out that not all non-tariff barriers need to be removed, but that some may exist which are contrary to the principles of proportionality and non-discrimination and which are not rooted in a public policy objective. the measures to improve the functioning of the single market should, according to the report, address these non-tariff barriers. the report stresses the need for two main changes: better and consistent enforcement of existing rules and a change in member states' attitudes to move away from increasingly protectionist measures and fully open up their domestic markets. it stresses that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the union, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. it is therefore in the interest of all member states and the european parliament to continue to remove those non-tariff barriers throughout europe in the interests of consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is sufficiently critical and can alert european decision-makers to the fact that governments serving the interests of producers with a high degree of economic and political influence are standing in the way of removing the non-tariff barriers that still restrict the single market too much. in my experience, some governments often see the arbitrary use of non-tariff barriers as a kind of political-tactical tool. of course, as the report indicates, practical considerations and the principle of subsidiarity require that, where appropriate, the use of non-tariff instruments should be possible in the future, in a timely manner and in a location. however, in my view, the primary consideration should be the interests of local smes and consumers throughout the eu, and in this context the promotion of healthy quality and price competition. the decades-long delay in completing the single market in reducing non-tariff barriers can only be overcome by a socially and politically sound approach to trade policy, which the report can help to develop, both for parliament and for the governments of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report points out that more than 20 years after the single market was established, unjustified non-tariff barriers continue to create difficulties for trade and the free movement of goods and services between member states. the maintenance of these non-tariff barriers may be the result of protectionism and may involve bureaucratic burdens that are very often disproportionate to the objectives pursued. i voted in favour of the s&d group.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new eu strategy on the internal market, as i believe that the proposals in the reports can help to realise the potential of the single market and can serve as a good starting point for europe to succeed in the global economic arena. with today's ambitious and practical strategy, we're focused on results. the next step is for the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to work towards implementing these concrete measures as quickly as possible. in my view, every effort should be made to ensure that consumers who wish to buy services or products in another member state, whether they buy online or in person, do not have to face different prices, changing sales conditions, different delivery methods, unless this can be justified by objective and verifiable arguments. the european commission and the european consumer centre often receive complaints alleging that consumers have been unfairly treated differently on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this practice should be discontinued in the future. the reduction of investment restrictive measures and the creation of new opportunities for consumers, professionals and businesses must continue. the single market must keep pace with change and therefore encourage and embrace innovative new business models. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new eu strategy on the internal market, as i believe that the proposals in the reports can help to realise the potential of the single market and can serve as a good starting point for europe to succeed in the global economic arena. with today's ambitious and practical strategy, we're focused on results. the next step is for the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to work towards implementing these concrete measures as quickly as possible. in my view, every effort should be made to ensure that consumers who wish to buy services or products in another member state, whether they buy online or in person, do not have to face different prices, changing sales conditions, different delivery methods, unless this can be justified by objective and verifiable arguments. the european commission and the european consumer centre often receive complaints alleging that consumers have been unfairly treated differently on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this practice should be discontinued in the future. the reduction of investment restrictive measures and the creation of new opportunities for consumers, professionals and businesses must continue. the single market must keep pace with change and therefore encourage and embrace innovative new business models.
in writing. i supported the new strategy for the eu's internal market, as i believe that the proposals in the reports can help to realise the potential of the single market and can serve as a good starting point for europe to succeed in the global economic arena. with today's ambitious and practical strategy, we're focused on results. the next step is for the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to work towards implementing these concrete measures as quickly as possible. in my view, every effort should be made to ensure that consumers who wish to buy services or products in another member state, whether they buy online or in person, do not have to face different prices, changing sales conditions, different delivery methods, unless this can be justified by objective and verifiable arguments. the european commission and the european consumer centre often receive complaints alleging that consumers have been unfairly treated differently on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this practice should be discontinued in the future. the reduction of investment restrictive measures and the creation of new opportunities for consumers, professionals and businesses must continue. the single market must keep pace with change and therefore encourage and embrace innovative new business models.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new eu strategy on the internal market, as i believe that the proposals in the reports can help to realise the potential of the single market and can serve as a good starting point for europe to succeed in the global economic arena. with today's ambitious and practical strategy, we're focused on results. the next step is for the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to work towards implementing these concrete measures as quickly as possible. in my view, every effort should be made to ensure that consumers who wish to buy services or products in another member state, whether they buy online or in person, do not have to face different prices, changing sales conditions, different delivery methods, unless this can be justified by objective and verifiable arguments. the european commission and the european consumer centre often receive complaints alleging that consumers have been unfairly treated differently on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this practice should be discontinued in the future. the reduction of investment restrictive measures and the creation of new opportunities for consumers, professionals and businesses must continue. the single market must keep pace with change and therefore encourage and embrace innovative new business models.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new eu strategy on the internal market, as i believe that the proposals in the reports can help to realise the potential of the single market and can serve as a good starting point for europe to succeed in the global economic arena. with today's ambitious and practical strategy, we're focused on results. the next step is for the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to work towards implementing these concrete measures as quickly as possible. in my view, every effort should be made to ensure that consumers who wish to buy services or products in another member state, whether they buy online or in person, do not have to face different prices, changing sales conditions, different delivery methods, unless this can be justified by objective and verifiable arguments. the european commission and the european consumer centre often receive complaints alleging that consumers have been unfairly treated differently on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this practice should be discontinued in the future. the reduction of investment restrictive measures and the creation of new opportunities for consumers, professionals and businesses must continue. the single market must keep pace with change and therefore encourage and embrace innovative new business models.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new eu strategy on the internal market, as i believe that the proposals in the reports can help to realise the potential of the single market and can serve as a good starting point for europe to succeed in the global economic arena. with today's ambitious and practical strategy, we're focused on results. the next step is for the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to work towards implementing these concrete measures as quickly as possible. in my view, every effort should be made to ensure that consumers who wish to buy services or products in another member state, whether they buy online or in person, do not have to face different prices, changing sales conditions, different delivery methods, unless this can be justified by objective and verifiable arguments. the european commission and the european consumer centre often receive complaints alleging that consumers have been unfairly treated differently on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this practice should be discontinued in the future. the reduction of investment restrictive measures and the creation of new opportunities for consumers, professionals and businesses must continue. the single market must keep pace with change and therefore encourage and embrace innovative new business models.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new eu strategy on the internal market, as i believe that the proposals in the reports can help to realise the potential of the single market and can serve as a good starting point for europe to succeed in the global economic arena. with today's ambitious and practical strategy, we're focused on results. the next step is for the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to work towards implementing these concrete measures as quickly as possible. in my view, every effort should be made to ensure that consumers who wish to buy services or products in another member state, whether they buy online or in person, do not have to face different prices, changing sales conditions, different delivery methods, unless this can be justified by objective and verifiable arguments. the european commission and the european consumer centre often receive complaints alleging that consumers have been unfairly treated differently on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this practice should be discontinued in the future. the reduction of investment restrictive measures and the creation of new opportunities for consumers, professionals and businesses must continue. the single market must keep pace with change and therefore encourage and embrace innovative new business models.
in writing. ‒ the completion of the single market has always been a key political priority in the european integration process and will continue to be so. however, rapid and effective action is needed to continue the work begun. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection therefore welcomes the proposals of the european commission's strategy 'making the single market work: empowering citizens and businesses' published on 28 october 2015, such as the legislative proposal on insolvency and early restructuring. it considers it unacceptable that undertakings go bankrupt or experience difficulties because the public authorities acting as their creditors do not respect the payment conditions laid down in the directive. it also proposes to examine the possibility of compensation mechanisms. it points out that the collaborative economy can play a role in growth and job creation, but the same services should be subject to the same rules. it also recognises the important role of the unitary patent in the protection of intellectual property, but urges measures to make it easier for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to use the unitary patent for their own innovative products. it stresses that the eu single market needs new and better market surveillance standards. the council also called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new eu strategy on the internal market, as i believe that the proposals in the reports can help to realise the potential of the single market and can serve as a good starting point for europe to succeed in the global economic arena. with today's ambitious and practical strategy, we're focused on results. the next step is for the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to work towards implementing these concrete measures as quickly as possible. in my view, every effort should be made to ensure that consumers who wish to buy services or products in another member state, whether they buy online or in person, do not have to face different prices, changing sales conditions, different delivery methods, unless this can be justified by objective and verifiable arguments. the european commission and the european consumer centre often receive complaints alleging that consumers have been unfairly treated differently on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this practice should be discontinued in the future. the reduction of investment restrictive measures and the creation of new opportunities for consumers, professionals and businesses must continue. the single market must keep pace with change and therefore encourage and embrace innovative new business models.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the single market strategy, which supports the overall objectives of the commission communication on the single market strategy for goods and services. i agree with the report that the single market should not be considered in isolation from other horizontal policy areas, in particular the digital single market, health, social and consumer protection, labour law and citizens' mobility, the environment, sustainable development, energy, transport and foreign policy. i share the view that in order to achieve tangible and rapid results in terms of competitiveness, sustainable growth, research, innovation, job creation, consumer choice and new business models, unjustified barriers to the single market must be removed as a matter of urgency. to this end, it is necessary to seek greater harmonisation of legislation by establishing appropriate measures to overcome unjustified obstacles alleged by member states. i welcome the fact that the report has highlighted the importance of consumer protection, the protection of workers and the protection of the environment and health. i also agree with the calls for the commission to work towards introducing country-by-country reporting for transnational corporations and to coordinate member states' efforts to find legislative solutions to the sharing economy.
in writing. ‒ the completion of the single market has always been a key political priority in the european integration process and will continue to be so. in recent years, however, the environment has changed dramatically. the challenges to be tackled are even more pressing and have a particular impact on the internal market: on the one hand, the growing unemployment of eu citizens, especially young people, which is leading to a weakening of businesses and competitiveness, and on the other, the problem of immigration. i voted for it.
mr president this report highlights a number of longstanding shortcomings in institutional policy coordination in the broader areas of development policy. understanding that development policy coherence as a european concept was born well before the refugee crisis, it is necessary to see that in the current situation, the creation of a close coherence between development and migration policies has become a vital issue for the effective functioning of the union. i would add that the common foreign and security policy must urgently be involved in improving coherence. the european external action service must now make the stabilisation of the eu's neighbourhood a real priority, by aligning community development objectives and instruments with the management and prevention of the refugee crisis. and let me draw your attention to something in particular: when we talk about refugees, let's pay special attention to children.
mr president, we have heard a lot of important points and concerns regarding the belarusian nuclear power plant (npp) project, but i would like to turn your attention to the fact that, while we are worrying because of an npp construction close to the eu’s borders, there is also something to be worried about within the borders of the eu. in hungary, my state, two new russian—type blocks are going to be built in the next couple of years. this is just the same construction and the same technology as in ostrovets, belarus: the russian—type vver 1200 reactors. this member state, hungary, has already proved that it understands eu law in quite a ‘flexible’ way when it comes to nuclear projects. regarding this nuclear project in hungary, there was a veto from the euratom supply agency because the contract with russia was not in line with eu law. there is an ongoing infringement because of the lack of tendering, according to european public procurement law. there is an in-depth investigation because of non—tendering. there is an in-depth investigation because of possible forbidden state aid regarding the same project. that was a concluded pilot project because of the lack of transparency of the project. this member state intentionally violated the eu regulation regarding nuclear waste with unlawfully shipped nuclear waste from a former serious incident in the existing npp to russia in 2014. would you buy a used car from those guys? and do you think that it is a good idea to let it go when they plan to build a new russian nuclear power plant in the heart of europe? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question. i completely agree that we need strong cooperation between the member states. regarding this project, ten eu member states participated in the process under the espoo convention. still, i believe that there is not enough attention from the member states. mainly austria and germany expressed deep interest and concerns regarding the project, but i would like to ask the member states, including croatia, to be more active regarding this project. in small countries like hungary, nuclear investments are not single member state issues.
mr president just a few weeks ago, on 26 april, we recalled the chernobyl nuclear disaster, which, after ukraine and many other european countries, had the greatest impact on the population of belarus, with a lasting impact. this fact in itself shows that this is a european issue since in the event of a crisis, there are cross-border threats. it is in our common interest that the european union, despite the serious political differences, should take care to improve belarus' nuclear security. i would add that for this country, which is exposed to putin's power games in a thousand ways, this issue is not indifferent from the point of view of the eu's common foreign and security policy, since the energy component has long been a determining element of minsk's dependence on moscow. while we are trying to bring belarus into the 21st century with a common effort in terms of energy dependence and nuclear safety, we are having to deal with the fact that within the union, one of the member states, unfortunately my own country, the government of hungary, is using the paks ii treaty to return its country to the conditions of the 20th century. it's going to be a long decade of subjugating the country to moscow, both in terms of energy and in terms of finances. as a hungarian representative, i have therefore the duty to draw the attention of the commission and the european parliament to our agenda item: this is also a common european issue and a danger, since we are talking about a member state which, moreover, completely ignores everything that the commission has put before us in the context of the energy union, and which has received convincing support in this parliament. and let me conclude by saying that every new facility, every new nuclear facility is a new wound, a stab in the future of the earth. the spectacular progress made in renewable energy over the last ten years makes any further development of nuclear power plants totally unjustified.
mr president there is a real danger that the programs outlined in this document will sink into a morass of local and governmental corruption and land speculation. i think we need to strengthen guarantees and constant monitoring. of course, democratically elected parliaments, including the european parliament, must play a prominent role in this monitoring, and i strongly suggest that they do so. in addition, many of the programmes focus on food security. i think that the priority should be to support the production and financing structures that support child nutrition. as part of our focus on fighting child hunger and malnutrition, i think we should start thinking about the type of food that is not affected by taxation anywhere.
madam president, please. the application of international financial reporting standards has in the past contributed significantly to strengthening the single market, but the financial crisis has shown that they need to be reviewed and improved. international financial reporting standards and international accounting standards, which are essential for the effective functioning of the internal market and capital markets, can be considered as public goods that should ensure financial stability, sustainable development, full transparency and accountability. in short, they must therefore serve the public interest and not just the interests of investors, lenders and creditors. they're supposed to serve the public interest.
madam president, please. the report identifies a number of mechanisms that implement unfair trading practices in the food chain. it is particularly important that it emphasises that prices should better reflect the value added of primary producers. i would now like to refer to an unfair commercial practice which is not mentioned in the report: the difference in the quality of goods sold in the eastern and western markets. sixty of us, the members, have submitted a written statement to that effect. clearly, the same product, in the same packaging, for the same price, is of much lower quality when sold in eastern markets. they said that eastern, central and eastern european countries are not being admitted into the eu as second-class citizens. and these companies think that in this house of europe, we should not be in the living room, but in the maid's room. this practice is unacceptable.
in writing. unfair trading practices in business-to-business relationships have become increasingly prominent in recent years and, although it is difficult to assess the scale of the problem, there is a significant body of statistical and market-based evidence suggesting that unfair trading practices are relatively widespread, particularly in the food supply chain. many member states have recognised that unfair trading practices cause harm and have taken measures to combat them. however, there are also significant differences in the rules in this area between member states and the scale of the problem varies. in my view, the scale of the problem requires the adoption of eu legislation to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the food supply chain. i believe that strong, consistent action is needed to put an end to unfair trading practices in the eu food supply chain once and for all.
madam president, please. i agree that population growth requires intensive food production to be sustainable. one important element is the reduction of food waste, which has reached different but critical levels in different member states. to address this, i propose that social instruments be developed at eu level. another important element i think is innovation, which i think will only be successful if the actual farmers are given the opportunity. i think the european innovation partnership is a good thing, but it would be nice to see concrete results. of course, all this requires resources, but until then, it's just a theoretical discussion. i ask the commission to propose possible solutions to this.
madam president, please. indeed, it is also important to obtain a commission opinion as soon as possible on new, innovative procedures for the award of a civil status, in order to prevent unjustified social rejection. it should be noted that the commission's own procedure is not to be confused with the social acceptance of gmos. another important thing is to link research and practice more effectively. this is typically the case with glyphosate now on the agenda of this parliament, where here in this room alone there have been a lot of innovative proposals and ideas about how to replace glyphosate, and the world is not changing much because farmers are not going to know what to do. i therefore think that the commission must devote much more energy to ensuring that we can actually bring the innovations we have acquired to the individual farmers.
in writing. i recommend that you vote in favour of the huitema report. agriculture has always developed new practices, techniques and production methods that have increased yields, improved the adaptability of agricultural practices to new and changing conditions and reduced production costs. agriculture and forestry are key parts of our world that provide goods and services beyond food production and that can be strengthened by promoting new developments. i see innovation as a prerequisite for sustaining this progress.
madam president, please. the european union, which was created to safeguard peace and the fundamental values of europe, is facing many challenges today. nevertheless, more countries want to join this community, which promotes democratic progress but also entails obligations. ukraine, which is part of transcarpathia, with a 12% hungarian population, has also chosen this community of values, where the coexistence of different nationalities has taken place. however, the manifestations of the far-right organizations present in the country threaten the peaceful coexistence, the tranquility. where hungarian monuments are vandalized, where fear-inspiring parades are held, as on march 13, when anti-hungarian words were chanted during torchlight parades in the streets of the county seat, ungvár. this move, which deeply violates the dignity of hungarians and european values, is contrary to the constitution of ukraine and the country's obligations under international conventions. following my written question after the event, the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy assured me that human rights and the rights of persons belonging to national minorities are also protected in the eu-ukraine association agreement and that the case will be discussed in the framework of the eu-ukraine human rights meeting.
madam president, please. the panama papers, luxleaks and other scandals in recent years have made it clear that tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning, is one of the most serious problems facing governments in europe today. there are many important elements of this problem that have been raised in this debate and i think that the proposal that the commission has put forward and the report that parliament has produced identify the problems well. but we have to move on, and that's not enough. i want to highlight two areas that may not have been addressed in this debate: one is the nature of the tax system itself, the nature of european tax systems. of course, member states have the right to set their tax rates and to set their taxation methods, but we must know that as long as there are such fragmented tax systems in europe, companies in this european union will use the resulting tax optimisation opportunities, so the unification of taxation is inevitable in order to reduce tax avoidance. and the second is that it's not just about tax rates that are changing in general. this is legislation that is specifically tailored to specific companies. to give an example: in my country, hungary, last year, the american company general electric used a tax-fixing option under which, after earning some huf 4000 billion, or about eur 15 billion, it did not pay tax in the country where it operated, but as a result of sales and purchase agreements between various shady subsidiaries, it brought the tax-fixing option to hungary and there received tax benefits that could eventually reduce the corporate tax rate actually paid to 2%. i think this is a typical example of tax avoidance and these company-specific tax planning legislative processes also require the commission to pay very close attention. (the intervener agrees to answer a question by way of a question mark (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. i agree that the european union is not the united states. at the same time, i believe that the oecd standards should be applied to the fullest extent possible and that the existing instruments of the european commission and the european union should be used much more effectively to combat tax evasion. for example, in the case of taxation of such companies, as i have mentioned in the case of general electric, i think that the commission should take the strictest possible action, examine to what extent this violates, for example, the rules on unlawful state aid, the rules on the internal market, and in this case the commission should force european law, existing european law, to be applied.
mr president aggressive tax planning this is a concept that i'm afraid european citizens don't really understand, but i'd like to end my speech by saying a few words about it. so the practice of aggressive tax planning is totally unacceptable from the point of view of the integrity of the internal market, as well as social justice, and that is why i propose that we make the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance a top political priority of the european union, that is to say, that we address these issues. europe cannot afford to let large multinational companies continue to take advantage of the differences between national tax systems without any problems, reducing the tax burden for themselves and increasing the tax burden for small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens who pay their fair share of tax. to achieve a reliable single market, member states need to harmonise their tax systems, which is a prerequisite for a well-functioning single internal market and economic and monetary union. the commission's directive very rightly seeks to address this situation with six specific anti-avoidance rules. the commission's proposal is to make the rules even more ambitious, since they now allow member states to deal effectively with corporate tax avoidance while ensuring free competition. one of the key elements in the fight against tax avoidance would be the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base, which could be a game changer in the fight against artificial tax base erosion and profit shifting strategies. the commission has already given a commitment to submit a proposal for a consolidated common corporate fund. it is important that this be published as soon as possible and that the negotiations on this issue be concluded as soon as possible. but i'm going to come back to aggressive tax planning. mr. president, i have to ask you... this is not just the fault of multinational corporations. these conditions are created by the member states of the european union. member governments create the rules that now result in large multinational companies paying at most under 5% and everyone else paying at most around 30%. this is shameful, this is untenable.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to go. we agree that we need rules, and what is more, transparent, clear rules. but what do you think the european union can do if the national bank of one of the member countries, with noble simplicity, flouts all the rules and authorises all kinds of transactions, and then does not check them later and there is no supervision: this is the hungarian national bank. furthermore, an amount of 1 billion euros disappeared from the hungarian market completely out of control.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global treaty on health. the convention was created in response to the global epidemic of smoking and aims to address some of the causes of the phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the eu's comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling has been in place since 2013. in this context, the eu has also strengthened the legal basis with the tobacco products directive, which is complemented by binding and enforceable anti-fraud agreements concluded by the eu and its member states with the four largest tobacco manufacturers (philip morris, japan tobacco international, british american tobacco (holdings) limited, imperial tobacco limited). the tobacco products directive already contains provisions on traceability and tracing, which have been developed in accordance with the fctc protocol. ratification of the fctc protocol is beneficial for public health and contributes to the fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, which is why i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global treaty on health. the convention was created in response to the global epidemic of smoking and aims to address some of the causes of the phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol based on article 15 of the fctc on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) was adopted by the conference of the parties in seoul on 12 november 2012. the protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. the eu signed the fctc protocol on 20 december 2013. the protocol requires ratification by 40 parties for its entry into force. the eu's comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling has been in place since 2013. in this context, the eu has also strengthened the legal basis with the tobacco products directive, which is complemented by binding and enforceable anti-fraud agreements concluded by the eu and its member states with the four largest tobacco manufacturers (philip morris, japan tobacco international, british american tobacco (holdings) limited, imperial tobacco limited). the tobacco products directive already contains provisions on traceability and tracing, which have been developed in accordance with the fctc protocol. ratification of the fctc protocol is beneficial for public health and contributes to the fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global treaty on health. the convention was created in response to the global epidemic of smoking and aims to address some of the causes of the phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol based on article 15 of the fctc on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) was adopted by the conference of the parties in seoul on 12 november 2012. the protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. the eu signed the fctc protocol on 20 december 2013. the protocol requires ratification by 40 parties for its entry into force. the eu's comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling has been in place since 2013. in this context, the eu has also strengthened the legal basis with the tobacco products directive, which is complemented by binding and enforceable anti-fraud agreements concluded by the eu and its member states with the four largest tobacco manufacturers (philip morris, japan tobacco international, british american tobacco (holdings) limited, imperial tobacco limited). the tobacco products directive already contains provisions on traceability and tracing, which have been developed in accordance with the fctc protocol. ratification of the fctc protocol is beneficial for public health and contributes to the fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global treaty on health. the convention was created in response to the global epidemic of smoking and aims to address some of the causes of the phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol based on article 15 of the fctc on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) was adopted by the conference of the parties in seoul on 12 november 2012. the protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. the eu signed the fctc protocol on 20 december 2013. the protocol requires ratification by 40 parties for its entry into force. the eu's comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling has been in place since 2013. in this context, the eu has also strengthened the legal basis with the tobacco products directive, which is complemented by binding and enforceable anti-fraud agreements concluded by the eu and its member states with the four largest tobacco manufacturers (philip morris, japan tobacco international, british american tobacco (holdings) limited, imperial tobacco limited). the tobacco products directive already contains provisions on traceability and tracing, which have been developed in accordance with the fctc protocol. ratification of the fctc protocol is beneficial for public health and contributes to the fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global treaty on health. the convention was created in response to the global epidemic of smoking and aims to address some of the causes of the phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol based on article 15 of the fctc on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) was adopted by the conference of the parties in seoul on 12 november 2012. the protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. the eu signed the fctc protocol on 20 december 2013. the protocol requires ratification by 40 parties for its entry into force. the eu's comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling has been in place since 2013. in this context, the eu has also strengthened the legal basis with the tobacco products directive, which is complemented by binding and enforceable anti-fraud agreements concluded by the eu and its member states with the four largest tobacco manufacturers (philip morris, japan tobacco international, british american tobacco (holdings) limited, imperial tobacco limited). the tobacco products directive already contains provisions on traceability and tracing, which have been developed in accordance with the fctc protocol. ratification of the fctc protocol is beneficial for public health and contributes to the fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the protocol based on article 15 of the fctc on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) was adopted by the conference of the parties in seoul on 12 november 2012. the protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. the eu's comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling has been in place since 2013. in this context, the eu has also strengthened the legal basis with the tobacco products directive, which is complemented by binding and enforceable anti-fraud agreements concluded by the eu and its member states with the four largest tobacco manufacturers (philip morris, japan tobacco international, british american tobacco (holdings) limited, imperial tobacco limited). the tobacco products directive already contains provisions on traceability and tracing, which have been developed in accordance with the fctc protocol. ratification of the fctc protocol is beneficial for public health and contributes to the fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global treaty on health. the convention was created in response to the global epidemic of smoking and aims to address some of the causes of the phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol based on article 15 of the fctc on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) was adopted by the conference of the parties in seoul on 12 november 2012. the protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. the eu signed the fctc protocol on 20 december 2013. the protocol requires ratification by 40 parties for its entry into force. the eu's comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling has been in place since 2013. in this context, the eu has also strengthened the legal basis with the tobacco products directive, which is complemented by binding and enforceable anti-fraud agreements concluded by the eu and its member states with the four largest tobacco manufacturers (philip morris, japan tobacco international, british american tobacco (holdings) limited, imperial tobacco limited). the tobacco products directive already contains provisions on traceability and tracing, which have been developed in accordance with the fctc protocol. ratification of the fctc protocol is beneficial for public health and contributes to the fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) entered into force on 27 february 2005 and currently has 180 parties. the protocol, based on article 15 of the fctc, was adopted in seoul on 12 november 2012 and requires the ratification of 40 parties for its entry into force. the protocol establishes a complex system of measures, rules and policies to combat illicit trade in tobacco products. it aims to secure the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment by establishing a global traceability and tracing system. the ratification of the protocol is in line with the eu's comprehensive measures to improve supply chain security to combat cigarette smuggling in force since 2013. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global treaty on health. the convention was created in response to the global epidemic of smoking and aims to address some of the causes of the phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol based on article 15 of the fctc on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) was adopted by the conference of the parties in seoul on 12 november 2012. the protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. the eu signed the fctc protocol on 20 december 2013. the protocol requires ratification by 40 parties for its entry into force. the eu's comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling has been in place since 2013. in this context, the eu has also strengthened the legal basis with the tobacco products directive, which is complemented by binding and enforceable anti-fraud agreements concluded by the eu and its member states with the four largest tobacco manufacturers (philip morris, japan tobacco international, british american tobacco (holdings) limited, imperial tobacco limited). the tobacco products directive already contains provisions on traceability and tracing, which have been developed in accordance with the fctc protocol. ratification of the fctc protocol is beneficial for public health and contributes to the fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to give the go-ahead for a draft council decision on behalf of the eu on illicit trade in tobacco products. as explained in the reasoning for the recommendation, the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global health treaty, which entered into force on 27 february 2005. the eu signed the fctc protocol on 20 december 2013. the protocol requires the ratification of 40 parties for its entry into force and its ratification by the european union without delay would contribute significantly to the smooth entry into force and implementation of the fctc protocol. illicit trade in tobacco products causes an estimated €10 billion in lost revenue in the eu each year, in the form of unpaid taxes and duties alone. however, illicit trade and smuggling also undermine tobacco control policies and increase access to cheaper tobacco products. this process also involves serious health risks. analyses show that about 1 out of 10 cigarettes are sold illegally. while 15 years ago the eu market for illicit tobacco products was dominated by products smuggled into the eu by the main manufacturers, the market is increasingly characterised by a steadily increasing proportion of 'low-value' whites (these are other brands bought in non-eu countries and brought into the eu without paying taxes and duties, without a legitimate distribution network). the risk is increased by the fact that a significant proportion of tobacco products banned in the eu originate from third countries.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global treaty on health. the convention was created in response to the global epidemic of smoking and aims to address some of the causes of the phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. i voted in favour, taking account of the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on trade and regulatory issues and the removal of obstacles to this are essential conditions for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and a diverse industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. effective regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. global technology requirements similar to the unece framework will help to reduce development, production and approval costs and contribute to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on trade and regulatory issues and the removal of obstacles to this are essential conditions for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and a diverse industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. effective regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. global technology requirements similar to the unece framework will help to reduce development, production and approval costs and contribute to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. cooperation on trade and regulatory issues and the removal of obstacles to this are essential conditions for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and a diverse industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. effective regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. global technology requirements similar to the unece framework will help to reduce development, production and approval costs and contribute to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on trade and regulatory issues and the removal of obstacles to this are essential conditions for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and a diverse industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. effective regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. global technology requirements similar to the unece framework will help to reduce development, production and approval costs and contribute to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on trade and regulatory issues and the removal of obstacles to this are essential conditions for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and a diverse industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. effective regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. global technology requirements similar to the unece framework will help to reduce development, production and approval costs and contribute to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on trade and regulatory issues and the removal of obstacles to this are essential conditions for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and a diverse industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. effective regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. global technology requirements similar to the unece framework will help to reduce development, production and approval costs and contribute to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on trade and regulatory issues and the removal of obstacles to this are essential conditions for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and a diverse industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. effective regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. global technology requirements similar to the unece framework will help to reduce development, production and approval costs and contribute to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on trade and regulatory issues and the removal of obstacles to this are essential conditions for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and a diverse industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. effective regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. global technology requirements similar to the unece framework will help to reduce development, production and approval costs and contribute to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the unece recommends a further revision of the 1958 agreement concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions. the council adopted a proposal for a decision on the conclusion of the revised agreement, which requires the consent of the parliament. the international trade committee report stresses that international regulatory cooperation has potential to promote a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, and that regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation, and that the eu should therefore support global technological harmonisation. in this context, it proposes that parliament give its consent to the proposal for a council decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on trade and regulatory issues and the removal of obstacles to this are essential conditions for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and a diverse industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. effective regulatory coherence and transparency are needed to develop and implement effective, cost-effective and more coherent legislation. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. global technology requirements similar to the unece framework will help to reduce development, production and approval costs and contribute to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation. i agree with the report's finding that industrial production is increasingly taking place in global value chains and that therefore the removal of unnecessary barriers to trade and regulatory cooperation is essential to maintaining and strengthening a competitive and diverse industrial base in europe. as is well known, the automotive industry and its associated ancillary industries constitute a key economic sector in the european union. the automotive industry alone employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of the eu's gdp. this makes the eu one of the world's largest car manufacturers and the sector the largest investor in research and development. i think it is important to stress that the automotive industry offers a very strong added value at all stages of the chain and plays a significant role in safeguarding the euro area's trade balance. i support the eu strengthening the competitiveness of the eu automotive industry and safeguarding its global leadership in technology in order to maintain the vital position of the automotive industry. in line with the recommendation, i believe that international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while at the same time creating and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection. in addition, regulatory coherence and transparency in the development and implementation of legislation are needed.
in writing. ‒ given the increasing interconnectedness of global markets (40% of european industrial products are made using imports from the upper levels of the supply chain) and the fact that industrial production increasingly takes place in global value chains, removing unnecessary barriers to trade and regulatory cooperation is essential to maintaining and strengthening a competitive and diverse industrial base in europe. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, animal and plant health measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union. the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, animal and plant health measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union. the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, animal and plant health measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union. the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, animal and plant health measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union. the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, animal and plant health measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union. the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, animal and plant health measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union. the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, animal and plant health measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union. the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, animal and plant health measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union. the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. on 11 december 2012, the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union ('the protocol'). the council adopted a draft decision on the ratification of the additional protocol, which requires parliament's consent. in its report, the international trade committee stresses that croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union and therefore recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the additional protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, animal and plant health measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union. the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation as it accepts that the trade agreement between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru be amended to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. the adoption of this council decision by the ep is a mandatory element of the ratification process of the additional protocol. the adoption of this recommendation thus facilitates the process by which the republic of croatia, which acceded to the eu on 1 july 2013, is linked, under its act of accession, to agreements concluded or signed by member states and the eu with third countries prior to its accession.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and certain provisions thereof have been applied, in accordance with article 330 of the agreement, between the european union and peru as from 1 march 2013 and between the european union and colombia as from 1 august 2013. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the council regulations proposed by the rapporteur for adoption establish enhanced cooperation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of property regimes of international couples, covering both matters relating to matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships. the critical element is same-sex marriage and its property implications. in the event of such an acceptance, all member states, including hungary, would be obliged to apply the property consequences of a marriage between persons of the same sex, a state which, moreover, has established at constitutional level that marriage can only be concluded between a man and a woman. several member states also expressed concern that even if future legal instruments did not require the introduction of unknown legal entities into their own national legal systems the recognition of property consequences arising from such foreign legal entities in their countries would have a direct impact on their national family law system and family law policy. i abstained from the vote because of all this.
in writing. ‒ visa-free travel within the eu, and greater freedom of establishment than before, has increased the number of international couples by orders of magnitude. however, negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 on matters concerning the property regimes of international couples, including both matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships, as regards jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments, have come to a standstill. in 2013, parliament gave a favourable opinion on the 2011 draft legislation, but it became clear at the end of 2015 that not all member states in the council would be able to agree with the proposals. in this context, enhanced cooperation was considered as an ideal solution, given that 23 member states agreed in principle to adopt the two acts. the commission therefore prepared proposals for further acts in early 2016 using the enhanced cooperation procedure, building on the agreement reached previously on the content. in the present case, the conditions for the enhanced cooperation procedure are met and parliament's consent to enhanced cooperation in this area is warranted. this decision will be the subject of a procedural decision and the related reports, the evaluation of their detailed content and separate decisions. that's why i voted to approve the cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in matters concerning the property regimes of international couples including both matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships the negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 with regard to jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments have reached a deadlock. in 2013, parliament gave a favourable opinion on the 2011 draft legislation, but it became clear at the end of 2015 that not all member states in the council would be able to agree with the proposals. in this context, enhanced cooperation was considered as an ideal solution, given that 23 member states agreed in principle to adopt the two acts. the commission therefore prepared proposals for further acts in early 2016 using the enhanced cooperation procedure, building on the agreement reached previously on the content. in the present case, the conditions for the enhanced cooperation procedure are met and parliament's consent to enhanced cooperation in this area is warranted. this decision will be the subject of a procedural decision and the related reports, the evaluation of their detailed content and separate decisions. that's why i voted to approve the cooperation.
in writing. in matters concerning the property regimes of international couples including both matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships the negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 with regard to jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments have reached a deadlock. in 2013, parliament gave a favourable opinion on the 2011 draft legislation, but it became clear at the end of 2015 that not all member states in the council would be able to agree with the proposals. in this context, enhanced cooperation was considered as an ideal solution, given that 23 member states agreed in principle to adopt the two acts. the commission therefore prepared proposals for further acts in early 2016 using the enhanced cooperation procedure, building on the agreement reached previously on the content. in the present case, the conditions for the enhanced cooperation procedure are met and parliament's consent to enhanced cooperation in this area is warranted. this decision will be the subject of a procedural decision and the related reports, the evaluation of their detailed content and separate decisions. that's why i voted to approve the cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in matters concerning the property regimes of international couples including both matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships the negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 with regard to jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments have reached a deadlock. in 2013, parliament gave a favourable opinion on the 2011 draft legislation, but it became clear at the end of 2015 that not all member states in the council would be able to agree with the proposals. in this context, enhanced cooperation was considered as an ideal solution, given that 23 member states agreed in principle to adopt the two acts. the commission therefore prepared proposals for further acts in early 2016 using the enhanced cooperation procedure, building on the agreement reached previously on the content. in the present case, the conditions for the enhanced cooperation procedure are met and parliament's consent to enhanced cooperation in this area is warranted. this decision will be the subject of a procedural decision and the detailed content of the related reports will be the subject of separate decisions. that's why i voted to approve the cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in matters concerning the property regimes of international couples including both matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships the negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 with regard to jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments have reached a deadlock. in 2013, parliament gave a favourable opinion on the 2011 draft legislation, but it became clear at the end of 2015 that not all member states in the council would be able to agree with the proposals. in this context, enhanced cooperation was considered as an ideal solution, given that 23 member states agreed in principle to adopt the two acts. the commission therefore prepared proposals for further acts in early 2016 using the enhanced cooperation procedure, building on the agreement reached previously on the content. in the present case, the conditions for the enhanced cooperation procedure are met and parliament's consent to enhanced cooperation in this area is warranted. this decision will be the subject of a procedural decision and the related reports, the evaluation of their detailed content and separate decisions. that's why i voted to approve the cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in matters concerning the property regimes of international couples including both matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships the negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 with regard to jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments have reached a deadlock. in 2013, parliament gave a favourable opinion on the 2011 draft legislation, but it became clear at the end of 2015 that not all member states in the council would be able to agree with the proposals. in this context, enhanced cooperation was considered as an ideal solution, given that 23 member states agreed in principle to adopt the two acts. the commission therefore prepared proposals for further acts in early 2016 using the enhanced cooperation procedure, building on the agreement reached previously on the content. in the present case, the conditions for the enhanced cooperation procedure are met and parliament's consent to enhanced cooperation in this area is warranted. this decision will be the subject of a procedural decision and the detailed content of the related reports will be the subject of separate decisions. that's why i voted to approve the cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in matters concerning the property regimes of international couples including both matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships the negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 with regard to jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments have reached a deadlock. in 2013, parliament gave a favourable opinion on the 2011 draft legislation, but it became clear at the end of 2015 that not all member states in the council would be able to agree with the proposals. in this context, enhanced cooperation was considered as an ideal solution, given that 23 member states agreed in principle to adopt the two acts. the commission therefore prepared proposals for further acts in early 2016 using the enhanced cooperation procedure, building on the agreement reached previously on the content. in the present case, the conditions for the enhanced cooperation procedure are met and parliament's consent to enhanced cooperation in this area is warranted. this decision will be the subject of a procedural decision and the related reports, the evaluation of their detailed content and separate decisions. that's why i voted to approve the cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in matters concerning the property regimes of international couples including both matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships the negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 with regard to jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments have reached a deadlock. in 2013, parliament gave a favourable opinion on the 2011 draft legislation, but it became clear at the end of 2015 that not all member states in the council would be able to agree with the proposals. in this context, enhanced cooperation was considered as an ideal solution, given that 23 member states agreed in principle to adopt the two acts. the commission therefore prepared proposals for further acts in early 2016 using the enhanced cooperation procedure, building on the agreement reached previously on the content. in the present case, the conditions for the enhanced cooperation procedure are met and parliament's consent to enhanced cooperation in this area is warranted. this decision will be the subject of a procedural decision and the detailed content of the related reports will be the subject of separate decisions. that's why i voted to authorize the cooperation
in writing. ‒ by the end of 2015, it became clear that the 2011 commission proposal on matters concerning the property regimes of international couples, which was supported by parliament, could not be reached in the council with the necessary consensus for adoption. however, as 23 member states agreed in principle to the proposal, the council adopted the proposal for a decision authorising enhanced cooperation, which requires parliament's consent. enhanced cooperation is the final option with the participation of at least nine member states when the objectives of cooperation cannot be achieved within a reasonable time by the union as a whole. it shall respect the union treaties and union law, as well as the competences, rights and obligations of member states not participating in the cooperation. it shall promote the objectives of the union, protect its interests and strengthen its integration process. finally, it must not affect the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion, nor must it discriminate against or impede trade between member states and distort competition between them. the report of the committee on legal affairs clearly states that these conditions are met in this case and therefore recommends that parliament give its consent to enhanced cooperation in this area. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to authorise enhanced cooperation in the field of property regimes for international couples, as it gives the 18 member states the opportunity to cooperate more closely. since the recommendation will not have any negative impact on member states not wishing to participate in this enhanced cooperation, there is no obstacle to its adoption. i welcome the pursuit of enhanced cooperation in this area, as there are many practical problems of property rights faced by citizens in an international marriage or civil partnership. in everyday cohabitation, but also in a possible divorce, it is often difficult to decide which court has jurisdiction and which laws apply to the case. it follows that these citizens must suffer unintended and adverse consequences. the establishment of judicial cooperation based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in civil matters involving several states is intended to improve this situation.
in writing. ‒ the decision to apply enhanced cooperation in matters concerning the property regimes of international couples including both matrimonial property regimes and the property aspects of registered partnerships in respect of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments was taken after negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 had reached a deadlock. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation concerns the accession of the european union to the protocol on the fight against illicit trade of the who framework convention on tobacco control. the protocol aims to prohibit all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol defines illicit trade in tobacco products as any practice or conduct that is related to the manufacture, transport, acquisition, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products and that is prohibited by law. to address this problem, the protocol targets the tobacco supply chain through measures taken by governments. this also requires the establishment of a global cargo tracking and tracing system within five years of the entry into force of the protocol. a global information sharing point will therefore be established within the secretariat of the who framework convention on tobacco control. it will be responsible for managing the establishment of national and regional cargo tracking and tracing systems. these are all positive steps and i have therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, the european union should ratify the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products without delay. that is why we voted today to allow the council to continue negotiations on behalf of the union for the conclusion of the protocol. this protocol contains actions and strategies to combat illicit trade in tobacco, which in the long term contribute to the fight against money laundering, the fight against cross-border organised crime and the enforcement of tax and customs obligations.
in writing. ‒ the european union should ratify the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products without delay. that is why we voted today to allow the council to continue negotiations on behalf of the union for the conclusion of the protocol. this protocol contains actions and strategies to combat illicit trade in tobacco, which in the long term contribute to the fight against money laundering, the fight against cross-border organised crime and the enforcement of tax and customs obligations.
in writing. the european union should ratify the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products without delay. that is why we voted today to allow the council to continue negotiations on behalf of the union for the conclusion of the protocol. this protocol contains actions and strategies to combat illicit trade in tobacco, which in the long term contribute to the fight against money laundering, the fight against cross-border organised crime and the enforcement of tax and customs obligations.
in writing. ‒ the european union should ratify the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products without delay. the hungarian people's party delegation supported the council's negotiation of the conclusion of the protocol by the union. this protocol contains actions and strategies to combat illicit trade in tobacco, which in the long term contribute to the fight against money laundering, the fight against cross-border organised crime and the enforcement of tax and customs obligations.
in writing. ‒ the european union should ratify the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products without delay. that is why we voted today to allow the council to continue negotiations on behalf of the union for the conclusion of the protocol. this protocol contains actions and strategies to combat illicit trade in tobacco, which in the long term contribute to the fight against money laundering, the fight against cross-border organised crime and the enforcement of tax and customs obligations.
in writing. ‒ this draft council decision aims at ratifying the provisions of the protocol on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the establishment of the facts of criminal offences, already mentioned in paragraph 1. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, with very similar reasoning to that contained in the report of the committee on international trade on the ratification of the protocol, already mentioned in paragraph 1, recommends that parliament should also agree to this draft council decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation addresses certain provisions of the world health organisation's protocol on the illicit trade in tobacco products, namely judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the establishment of criminal facts. to clarify the definition, the protocol defines illicit trade in tobacco products as any practice or conduct that is related to the manufacture, transport, acquisition, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products and that is prohibited by law. to address this phenomenon, the protocol targets the tobacco supply chain through measures taken by governments, such as the establishment of a global traceability and tracing system. the recommendation notes that the protocol encourages and improves international cooperation, the sharing of valid information, technical and law enforcement cooperation, and mutual legal and administrative assistance. i agree that the tobacco industry has a responsibility in this process to act effectively and clearly in dealing with the illicit trade in its products. the protocol recognises the irreconcilable conflict between the tobacco industry and its public health interests. in the interest of public health, i have voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products should be ratified by the european union without delay. the protocol aims to prohibit all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol defines illicit trade in tobacco products as any practice or conduct that is related to the manufacture, transport, acquisition, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products and that is prohibited by law. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the lack of data has implications in several areas of the financial instruments market. as regards market regulation, it is clear that most market rules cannot be applied until the reference data is available and the infrastructures are in place to collect the additional data needed for the calculation of transparency and the reporting of positions. the new framework requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to communicate certain reference data on financial instruments to competent authorities in a way that uniquely describes the characteristics of financial instruments covered by the mifid ii package. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. ‒ the lack of data has implications for several areas of mifid ii. as regards market regulation, it is clear that most market rules cannot be applied until the reference data is available and the infrastructures are in place to collect the additional data needed for the calculation of transparency and the reporting of positions. the new framework requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to communicate certain reference data on financial instruments to competent authorities in a way that uniquely describes the characteristics of financial instruments covered by the mifid ii package. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. the lack of data has implications for several areas of mifid ii. as regards market regulation, it is clear that most market rules cannot be applied until the reference data is available and the infrastructures are in place to collect the additional data needed for the calculation of transparency and the reporting of positions. the new framework requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to communicate certain reference data on financial instruments to competent authorities in a way that uniquely describes the characteristics of financial instruments covered by the mifid ii package. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. ‒ the lack of data has implications for several areas of mifid ii. as regards market regulation, it is clear that most market rules cannot be applied until the reference data is available and the infrastructures are in place to collect the additional data needed for the calculation of transparency and the reporting of positions. the new framework requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to communicate certain reference data on financial instruments to competent authorities in a way that uniquely describes the characteristics of financial instruments covered by the mifid ii package. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. ‒ the lack of data has implications for several areas of mifid ii. as regards market regulation, it is clear that most market rules cannot be applied until the reference data is available and the infrastructures are in place to collect the additional data needed for the calculation of transparency and the reporting of positions. the new framework requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to communicate certain reference data on financial instruments to competent authorities in a way that uniquely describes the characteristics of financial instruments covered by the mifid ii package. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. in principle, democracy, with elected leaders and citizens' right to vote, is one of the european union's founding principles. in fact, the latter is limited to 1 day every 4 1/2 years for the most part, while the former is overridden daily by the power of the international financial institutions. in this context, it is already a step forward that the proposed directives can dampen speculation and reduce uncertainty in the financial system. the partial deferral is justified by objective reasons.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to amend directive 2014/65/ec on markets in financial instruments with regard to certain dates. the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that parliament should support the commission's proposal with two amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on markets in financial instruments which recommends postponing the application of the measures transposing directive 2014/65/eu by member states and the repeal of directive 2004/39/ec for 12 months, until 3 january 2018. the new framework introduced by regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with data on financial instruments covered by that directive. however, the development of the new data collection infrastructure has not yet taken place. therefore, while article 93 of directive 2014/65/eu requires member states to apply the measures transposing that directive from 3 january 2017, its implementation is not appropriate as the absence of data collection infrastructures would affect the full scope of both regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu. it is therefore appropriate to postpone the deadline by 12 months as recommended in the report, until the necessary operational tasks have been fully completed by the competent national authorities and the parties concerned.
in writing. ‒ the development of a new data collection infrastructure has started to ensure efficient and coordinated data collection. to that end, the european securities and markets authority (esma) shall, in cooperation with the national competent authorities, establish a system of reference data on financial instruments. i voted in favour of the relevant document.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the amendment of previous regulations on markets in financial instruments, as the required deadlines cannot be met. it became clear already during the legislative procedure that a significant number of measures would be needed to implement the directives, and a period of 30 months was therefore provided for between adoption and application, instead of the usual 18-24 months. however, it has since become clear that the core data infrastructures will not be operational until 3 january 2017. in practice, this means that if the date of application remains unchanged, neither the competent authorities nor the market operators will be able to apply the new rules. the instability of the financial system is the result of the process of deregulation and liberalisation that began in the early 1990s, and which is also the consequence of the power of international financial institutions rising above the influence and power of democratic structures of nation-states, elected leaders. the directives referred to in this submission may dampen speculation and reduce uncertainty in the financial system, but they do not eliminate it. in this particular case, the introduction of certain measures was essentially postponed, since the information system needed for them could not yet be set up. i supported this delay.
in writing. ‒ the draft proposal aims to postpone the application of the two instruments that make up the package of directives on markets in financial instruments (mifid ii) in view of the challenges faced by the european securities and markets authority, national competent authorities and stakeholders in relation to technical implementation. the challenges are of such a magnitude that the core data infrastructures will not be operational on 3 january 2017. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. ‒ the draft proposal aims to postpone the application of the two instruments that make up the mifid ii package, given that the european securities and markets authority, national competent authorities and stakeholders have faced certain challenges in terms of technical implementation. the challenges are of such a magnitude that the core data infrastructures will not be operational on 3 january 2017. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. the draft proposal aims to postpone the application of the two acts constituting the mifid ii package, given that the european securities and markets authority, national competent authorities and stakeholders have faced certain challenges in relation to technical implementation. the challenges are of such a magnitude that the core data infrastructures will not be operational on 3 january 2017. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. ‒ the draft proposal aims to postpone the application of the two instruments that make up the mifid ii package, given that the european securities and markets authority, national competent authorities and stakeholders have faced certain challenges in terms of technical implementation. the challenges are of such a magnitude that the core data infrastructures will not be operational on 3 january 2017. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. ‒ the draft proposal aims to postpone the application of the two instruments that make up the mifid ii package, given that the european securities and markets authority, national competent authorities and stakeholders have faced certain challenges in terms of technical implementation. the challenges are of such a magnitude that the core data infrastructures will not be operational on 3 january 2017. i voted in favour of the report. i consider it essential that a sufficiently clear legal position is established by mid-2016 as regards the final requirements of the relevant regulatory technical standards.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to amend regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on the improvement of securities settlement in the european union and on central securities depositories with regard to certain dates. in its report, the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that parliament should support the commission's proposal with a few amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report which, in addition to recommending the postponement of the application of the measures transposing directive 2014/65/eu by the member states and the repeal of directive 2004/39/ec to 12 months after the entry into force of this directive, i.e. 3 january 2018, citing the lack of technical conditions, also recommends the amendment of regulations (eu) no 596/2014 and (eu) no 909/2014. regulation (eu) no 596/2014 and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 of the european parliament and of the council contain references to the date of application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu. therefore, in order to ensure legal certainty, and in line with the recommendation, i consider it appropriate to amend those regulations in such a way that they refer to directive 2004/39/ec until the deferred application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu.
in writing. ‒ the lack of data collection infrastructures also makes it difficult for investment firms to apply best practice. trading venues and systematic internalisers will not be able to publish data related to the quality of execution of transactions on those venues. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the council nominated the lithuanian minister of finance, rimantas šadžius, as a member of the court of auditors. on the basis of the evaluation of the proposed candidate's capabilities, the parliament's committee on budgetary control has heard the candidate at its meeting on 23 may 2016 and, on that basis, recommends in its report that parliament give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the cv of rimantas šadžius, the candidate for the court of auditors, is impressive. he obtained a law degree and a master's degree in law at vilnius university, but also a chemistry degree in moscow. he has also served as minister of finance, deputy minister of health and deputy minister of social and labour affairs of the government of lithuania. i voted for his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the 2015 eu report on policy coherence for development. the commission document was published in august 2015, ahead of the adoption of the un 2030 agenda for development (undp). the eu participated as co-legislator in the development of the pcd concept. the report summarises the results achieved so far and sets out a debate on future directions. it analyses five priority areas: trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security. in the light of the migration crisis, the stability of the union's neighbourhood should be the eu's top priority. i believe that closer cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states is important. i agree with the rapporteur that a european council meeting on pcd should be organised before the publication of the next commission report for 2017 to promote the interinstitutional and national debate on pcd within the eu. it is necessary to define the commitment of each union institution to the pcd.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the 2015 eu report on policy coherence for development. the commission document was published in august 2015, ahead of the adoption of the un 2030 agenda for development. the eu participated as co-legislator in the development of the pcd concept. the report summarises the results achieved so far and sets out a debate on future directions. it analyses five priority areas: trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security. in the light of the migration crisis, the stability of the union's neighbourhood should be the eu's top priority. i believe that closer cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states is important. i agree with the rapporteur that a european council meeting on pcd should be organised before the publication of the next commission report for 2017 to promote the interinstitutional and national debate on pcd within the eu. it is necessary to define the commitment of each union institution to the pcd.
in writing. i supported the report on the 2015 eu report on policy coherence for development. the commission document was published in august 2015 ahead of the adoption of the un 2030 agenda for development. the eu participated as co-legislator in the development of the pcd concept. the report summarises the results achieved so far and sets out a debate on future directions. it analyses five priority areas: trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security. in the light of the migration crisis, the stability of the union's neighbourhood should be the eu's top priority. i believe that closer cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states is important. i agree with the rapporteur that a european council meeting on pcd should be organised before the publication of the next commission report for 2017 to promote the interinstitutional and national debate on pcd within the eu. it is necessary to define the commitment of each union institution to the pcd.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the 2015 eu report on policy coherence for development. the commission document was published in august 2015, ahead of the adoption of the un 2030 agenda for development. the eu participated as co-legislator in the development of the pcd concept. the report summarises the results achieved so far and sets out a debate on future directions. it analyses five priority areas: trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security. in the light of the migration crisis, the stability of the union's neighbourhood should be the eu's top priority. i believe that closer cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states is important. i agree with the rapporteur that a european council meeting on pcd should be organised before the publication of the next commission report for 2017 to promote the interinstitutional and national debate on pcd within the eu. it is necessary to define the commitment of each union institution to the pcd.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the 2015 eu report on policy coherence for development. the commission document was published in august 2015, ahead of the adoption of the un 2030 agenda for development. the eu participated as co-legislator in the development of the pcd concept. the report summarises the results achieved so far and sets out a debate on future directions. it analyses five priority areas: trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security. in the light of the migration crisis, the stability of the union's neighbourhood should be the eu's top priority. i believe that closer cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states is important. i agree with the rapporteur that a european council meeting on pcd should be organised before the publication of the next commission report for 2017 to promote the interinstitutional and national debate on pcd within the eu. it is necessary to define the commitment of each union institution to the pcd.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the 2015 eu report on policy coherence for development. the commission document was published in august 2015, ahead of the adoption of the un 2030 agenda for development. the eu participated as co-legislator in the development of the pcd concept. the report summarises the results achieved so far and sets out a debate on future directions. it analyses five priority areas: trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security. in the light of the migration crisis, the stability of the union's neighbourhood should be the eu's top priority. i believe that closer cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states is important. i agree with the rapporteur that a european council meeting on pcd should be organised before the publication of the next commission report for 2017 to promote the interinstitutional and national debate on pcd within the eu. it is necessary to define the commitment of each union institution to the pcd.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the 2015 eu report on policy coherence for development. the commission document was published in august 2015, ahead of the adoption of the un 2030 agenda for development. the eu participated as co-legislator in the development of the pcd concept. the report summarises the results achieved so far and sets out a debate on future directions. it analyses five priority areas: trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security. in the light of the migration crisis, the stability of the union's neighbourhood should be the eu's top priority. i believe that closer cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states is important. i agree with the rapporteur that a european council meeting on pcd should be organised before the publication of the next commission report for 2017 to promote the interinstitutional and national debate on pcd within the eu. it is necessary to define the commitment of each union institution to the pcd.
in writing. this report is something intangible, neatly wrapped in a communication cloak, the point being that it does not specifically assess what needs to be done and, of course, who needs to provide the resources and how much. this is also true, in large part, of the un's 2030 agenda for sustainable development. there remains the continuing regret that little progress has been made in its implementation and style, and the finding that few studies have been produced and that they have been disputed. we need concrete solutions to real problems.
in writing. ‒ the european commission publishes a report on policy coherence for development (pcd) every two years. the latest, fifth report, was published in august 2015, shortly before the formal adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development by the un summit in new york in september, which includes the objective of 'strengthening policy coherence for sustainable development'. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the union state aid rules to the measures provided for in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the 2016 resolution analyses and makes specific recommendations in five priority areas (trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security). the report also points out that the refugee crisis and the uncertainty in the eu's neighbourhood are fundamentally challenging the eu (for example, european solidarity and the schengen system), and that stabilising the eu's neighbourhood should therefore be a top priority for the eu, with the pcd focusing on external action. notes that the combined role of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy has led to significant progress in the application of the pcd in the field of the union's external actions; i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report because it actually highlights a number of long-standing shortcomings in institutional and policy coordination in the wider field of development policy. i considered that, although the pcd as a european concept was born well before the refugee crisis, it could be said that in the current situation, the creation of a close alignment between development and migration policies has become a vital issue for the effective functioning of the union. it is in the report, but i would have stressed even more strongly the urgency of involving the common foreign and security policy in improving coherence: in this context, the eeas should treat the stabilisation of the eu's neighbourhood as a priority task, placing community development objectives and instruments at the service of the management and prevention of the refugee crisis. i considered it a positive element of the compilation that like many other eu development goals and documents it emphasises the promotion of gender equality. in addition, i would like to see a similar horizontal and coherent approach in the future to children as the most vulnerable and disadvantaged group, whether in the management of food, poverty, disease, refugees or war situations.
in writing. ‒ the european commission (ec) published its fifth biennial report on policy coherence for development (pcd) in august 2015, shortly before the formal adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development at the un summit in new york in september, which includes the objective of 'strengthening policy coherence for sustainable development'. i voted for the present document.
in writing. ‒ to avoid migration from africa, i believe it is important to create agricultural investments in africa that support local farmers, family farms. the new food and nutrition security association is committed to agriculture-based development and aims to create a business-friendly environment. the lack of partnership is that while small producers should be the basis for cooperation, it is small producers who have barely participated in the dialogue. i agree with the rapporteur who stresses the importance of governance and ownership, accountability, support for sustainable family farms and access to arable land. it also calls on african governments to invest in local food systems, create jobs and ensure transparency. i voted in favour of the report, taking account of its shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa, a partnership established in 2012 to boost private investment in agriculture. the targets have shortcomings, as they are mostly based on the 1960s green revolution model of monocultural production, which offers limited opportunities for growth. i think it's important to create agricultural investments in africa that support local farmers, family farms. the new food and nutrition security association is committed to agriculture-based development and aims to create a business-friendly environment. the lack of partnership is that while small producers should be the basis for cooperation, it is small producers who have barely participated in the dialogue. i agree with the rapporteur who stresses the importance of governance and ownership, accountability, support for sustainable family farms and access to arable land. it also calls on african governments to invest in the local food system, create jobs and ensure transparency.
in writing. i supported the report on the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa, a partnership established in 2012 to boost private investment in agriculture. the targets have shortcomings, as they are mostly based on the 1960s green revolution model of monocultural production, which offers limited opportunities for growth. i think it's important to create agricultural investments in africa that support local farmers, family farms. the new food and nutrition security association is committed to agriculture-based development and aims to create a business-friendly environment. the lack of partnership is that while small producers should be the basis for cooperation, it is small producers who have barely participated in the dialogue. i agree with the rapporteur who stresses the importance of governance and ownership, accountability, support for sustainable family farms and access to arable land. it also calls on african governments to invest in local food systems, create jobs and ensure transparency.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa, a partnership established in 2012 to boost private investment in agriculture. the targets have shortcomings, as they are mostly based on the 1960s green revolution model of monocultural production, which offers limited opportunities for growth. i think it's important to create agricultural investments in africa that support local farmers, family farms. the new food and nutrition security association is committed to agriculture-based development and aims to create a business-friendly environment. the lack of partnership is that while small producers should be the basis for cooperation, it is small producers who have barely participated in the dialogue. i agree with the rapporteur who stresses the importance of governance and ownership, accountability, support for sustainable family farms and access to arable land. it also calls on african governments to invest in local food systems, create jobs and ensure transparency.
in writing. i supported the report on the new alliance for food and food security in africa, a partnership established in 2012 to boost private investment in agriculture. the targets have shortcomings, as they are mostly based on the 1960s green revolution model of monoculture production, which offers limited opportunities for growth. i think it's important to create agricultural investments in africa that support local farmers, family farms. the new food and nutrition security association is committed to agriculture-based development and aims to create a business-friendly environment. the lack of partnership is that while small producers should be the basis for cooperation, it is small producers who have barely participated in the dialogue. i agree with the rapporteur who stresses the importance of governance and ownership, accountability, support for sustainable family farms and access to arable land. it also calls on african governments to invest in local food systems, create jobs and ensure transparency.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa, a partnership established in 2012 to boost private investment in agriculture. the targets have shortcomings, as they are mostly based on the 1960s green revolution model of monocultural production, which offers limited opportunities for growth. i think it's important to create agricultural investments in africa that support local farmers, family farms. the new food and nutrition security association is committed to agriculture-based development and aims to create a business-friendly environment. the lack of partnership is that while small producers should be the basis for cooperation, it is small producers who have barely participated in the dialogue. i agree with the rapporteur who stresses the importance of governance and ownership, accountability, support for sustainable family farms and access to arable land. it also calls on african governments to invest in the local food system, create jobs and ensure transparency.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa, a partnership established in 2012 to boost private investment in agriculture. the targets have shortcomings, as they are mostly based on the 1960s green revolution model of monocultural production, which offers limited opportunities for growth. i think it's important to create agricultural investments in africa that support local farmers, family farms. the new food and nutrition security association is committed to agriculture-based development and aims to create a business-friendly environment. the lack of partnership is that while small producers should be the basis for cooperation, it is small producers who have barely participated in the dialogue. i agree with the rapporteur who stresses the importance of governance and ownership, accountability, support for sustainable family farms and access to arable land. it also calls on african governments to invest in the local food system, create jobs and ensure transparency.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa (nafsn) initiative was established in 2012 under the g8 umbrella as a public-private partnership (ppp) to boost private investment in agriculture to improve food and nutrition security in sub-saharan africa. the aim of nafsn is to replicate in africa the model of the 'green revolution' implemented in asia in the 1960s and 1970s, based on monoculture crop production, mechanization, biotechnology, fertilizer dependence, long distribution chains and the cultivation of export crops. the limitations of this approach are well known, in particular the environmental risks involved. the development committee report questions the ability of large-scale ppps such as nafsn to contribute to poverty reduction and food security, as there is a high risk that the poorest communities will have to bear most of the social and environmental risks associated with them. it suggests that the eu and its member states should stop their current support for nafsn and instead invest in an agricultural model that is sustainable, supportive of smallholder farming and women, and that unlocks the potential of domestic and regional markets in a way that benefits family farmers and provides consumers with good quality food at affordable prices. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the aim of the alliance in the title is to improve food security and nutrition in africa and thus help 50 million people to get out of poverty by 2020 in sub-saharan africa. the report highlights that investment in smallholder farming has been neglected in africa over the past 30 years, while low-income countries have become significantly more dependent on food imports, leaving them vulnerable to price fluctuations in international markets. the alliance (after some technical modifications) may be able to contribute to poverty reduction and food security. another agricultural model needs to be invested in, one that is sustainable, that also supports small-scale farming and the participation of women in a way that benefits local farmers and provides consumers with good quality food at affordable prices. the alliance aims to replicate in africa the green revolution model implemented in asia in the 1960s and 1970s, based on monoculture crop production, mechanization, biotechnology, fertilizer dependence, long distribution chains and the cultivation of export crops. in addition, host country policies aim to create a business-friendly environment through infrastructure, tax, land or trade policy reforms, facilitating access to land set aside for long-term rental, and regulatory reforms in the field of seeds.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa (nafsn) initiative was established in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a major public-private partnership to boost private investment in agriculture to improve food and nutrition security in sub-saharan africa. the eu is responsible for coordinating the implementation of the ivory coast and malawi. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ international financial reporting standards are principles-based, approach-based accounting standards, interpretations and frameworks issued by the international accounting standards board (iasb) based in london, creating a common language for global financial reporting. from 2005, the standards will also be mandatory in the european union for the consolidated accounts of companies whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market in a member state of the union. the rapporteur calls on the standard-setters to ensure their coherence within existing accounting standards and to promote international consistency. it also called on the commission to urgently implement the recommendations on the extension of the public good criterion, i.e. that accounting standards do not jeopardise the eu's financial stability or impede the eu's economic development. so this is a technical issue, the application of international financial standards in the union, which i supported. at the same time, i should note that the existence of these standards only mitigates, but does not stop, the financial instability that resulted from the financial liberalisation and deregulation measures of the 1990s.
in writing. as i have pointed out on several occasions, the origins of financial instability lie in the financial liberalisation and deregulation measures of the 1990s. since then, there have been various attempts to promote stability, but these, by the logic of things, can only mitigate the problems. of course, this technical report, which aims to simplify the rules, should also be supported, but only radical solutions could really be taken to combat lability.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) develops high-quality, globally applicable accounting standards, thereby creating a common language for global financial statements. since 2005, publicly traded companies in the eu have been required to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with these standards. the economic and monetary affairs committee reported that the application of international financial reporting standards in the eu has contributed to strengthening the single market and has enhanced the competitiveness of the european economy by enabling companies to attract capital and investments on global capital markets. however, the financial crisis has also shown that financial reporting standards need to be reviewed and improved. the report stresses the need to develop coherent financial reporting standards and considers it of utmost importance to ensure european influence throughout the standard-setting process, and particularly at its early stages, in order to ensure that international accounting standards represent the european economic interests. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of international accounting standards, as i believe it correctly highlights the importance of financial reporting standards and summarises in detail the areas where as the financial crisis has made clear revision and revision of standards are inevitable. i strongly support the part of the report which calls for the introduction of country-by-country reporting under ifrs, as this could play a decisive role in tackling tax avoidance and tax fraud. indeed, it is also urgently necessary to examine whether accounting standards allow for tax fraud and tax evasion and to identify measures to avoid and prevent possible abuses. it is also essential, as the report underlines, to be fully aware of the impact of accounting standards. therefore, both the international accounting standards board and the european financial reporting advisory group should give priority to strengthening their impact assessments, in particular with regard to the macroeconomy. finally, i welcome the view that only simple rules can be effectively applied and supervised. the complexity of ifrss should therefore be reduced in order to ensure the long-sought greater transparency and comparability of corporate financial data.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb), based in london, develops high-quality, globally applicable accounting standards, thereby creating a common language for global financial statements. the rapporteur of the opinion recognises the importance of such globally applicable standards in improving competition and removing barriers to investment at a global level. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report's statement that the un is one of the principal custodians of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. over the past decade, the situation has changed dramatically and in many areas, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism operations have become a part of everyday life that must be addressed. as african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond purely security considerations, the role of the african union, in which the eu should play a significant role, should also be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. at the same time, i would like to emphasise that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises that the un is the principal guardian of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. it has changed dramatically over the past decade, and in many areas, peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations have become a part of everyday life that must be addressed. as african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond purely security considerations, the role of the au, in which the eu should play a significant role, should be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. it notes, however, that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value.
in writing. the report emphasises that the un is the principal guardian of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. it has changed dramatically over the past decade, and in many areas, peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations have become a part of everyday life that must be addressed. as african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond purely security considerations, the role of the au, in which the eu should play a significant role, should be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. it notes, however, that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises that the un is the principal guardian of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. it has changed dramatically over the past decade, and in many areas, peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations have become a part of everyday life that must be addressed. as african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond purely security considerations, the role of the au, in which the eu should play a significant role, should be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. it notes, however, that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value. in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises that the un is the principal guardian of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. it has changed dramatically over the past decade, and in many areas, peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations have become a part of everyday life that must be addressed. as african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond purely security considerations, the role of the au, in which the eu should play a significant role, should be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. it notes, however, that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises that the un is the principal guardian of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. it has changed dramatically over the past decade, and in many areas, peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations have become a part of everyday life that must be addressed. as african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond purely security considerations, the role of the au, in which the eu should play a significant role, should be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. it notes, however, that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises that the un is the principal guardian of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. over the past decade, dramatically in many regions, peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations have become a daily reality that must be addressed. the african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond mere security considerations. the role of the au, in which the eu should play a significant role, should also be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. it notes, however, that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises that the un is the principal guardian of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. it has changed dramatically over the past decade, and in many areas, peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations have become a part of everyday life that must be addressed. as african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond purely security considerations, the role of the au, in which the eu should play a significant role, should be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. it notes, however, that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises that the un is the principal guardian of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. it has changed dramatically over the past decade, and in many areas, peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations have become a part of everyday life that must be addressed. as african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond purely security considerations, the role of the au, in which the eu should play a significant role, should be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. it notes, however, that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value.
in writing. peacekeeping has a positive effect on everyone. it's got a nice ring to it. it is a little bit of a shadow that in a significant part of the countries where the peacekeeping forces are now deployed, there used to be peace, order, stability. then came the export of "democracy", ending the state's outdated structures. the secondary meaning is chaos, misery, suffering. finally, the peacekeepers and the abuses they commit. but the building blocks of our world can be put together in a way that is good for the vast majority of people.
in writing. ‒ the report of the foreign affairs committee praises the eu's peace support operations and advocates deepening cooperation with the un and the african union, in particular as regards their military and police contributions to un missions. it considers peacekeeping operations as a form of crisis response, aimed at preventing armed conflict, restoring and maintaining peace, implementing peace agreements and addressing challenges and emergencies arising from failing or weak states. notes that the security situation in africa has changed dramatically over the past decade with the rise of terrorist and insurgent groups in somalia, nigeria and the sahel-sahara region; the growing number of unstable states and ungoverned territories is driving many into poverty and lawlessness, creating corruption and violence, while easily-crossable borders within the continent are contributing to increased violence, reduced security and opportunities for crime. it therefore calls on the eu to step up its efforts to strengthen international security in cooperation with the un and the african union. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises that the un is the principal guardian of international peace and security. there are now 16 un peacekeeping operations, more than ever before, involving 120,000 personnel. over the past decade, the situation has changed dramatically and in many areas, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism operations have become a part of everyday life that must be addressed. as african crises require a coherent global response that goes beyond purely security considerations, the role of the au, in which the eu should play a significant role, should be further strengthened. the report welcomes the strategic partnership between the un and the eu on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for the period 2015-2018. it notes, however, that the proper management of these complex partnerships, avoiding duplication of missions, is essential for the success of operations. the report urges the eu to work towards a proper division of labour and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most added value. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report in the hope that it would help to raise awareness of the importance of closer coordination amongst many international organisations outside the union, beyond the un and the african union, that are interested in or involved in international and african peacekeeping operations. harmonisation of efforts and efficiency of governance are equally key to the prudent use of resources and to the coherence of civilian and military objectives and means. while the un and most of its african partners have a generally good track record of cooperation, the european union, as the largest financial contributor, cannot afford to be indifferent to efficiency issues in the future. the report can also help to promote the long-standing ambition that the eu has the appropriate common military toolbox to achieve the common european objectives agreed in the framework of the cfsp on a global basis.
in writing. ‒ peace support operations are a form of crisis response, usually in support of an internationally recognised organisation, such as the un or the african union, with a un mandate, for the purpose of preventing armed conflict, restoring, maintaining or building peace, implementing peace agreements, and dealing with challenges and emergencies arising from failing or weak states. i voted in favour of the present document.
in writing. ‒ many member states have recognised that unfair trading practices cause harm and have taken measures to combat them. however, there are also significant differences in the rules in this area between member states and the scale of the problem varies. in my view, the scale of the problem requires the adoption of eu legislation to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the food supply chain. i believe that firm, consistent action is needed to put an end to unfair trading practices in the eu food supply chain once and for all. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ many member states have recognised that unfair trading practices cause harm and have taken measures to combat them. however, there are also significant differences in the rules in this area between member states and the scale of the problem varies. in my view, the scale of the problem requires the adoption of eu legislation to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the food supply chain. i voted in favor of the motion. i believe that firm, consistent action is needed to put an end to unfair trading practices in the eu food supply chain once and for all.
in writing. many member states have recognised that unfair trading practices cause harm and have taken measures to combat them. however, there are also significant differences in the rules in this area between member states and the scale of the problem varies. in my view, the scale of the problem requires the adoption of eu legislation to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the food supply chain. i voted in favor of the motion. i believe that firm, consistent action is needed to put an end to unfair trading practices in the eu food supply chain once and for all.
in writing. ‒ many member states have recognised that unfair trading practices cause harm and have taken measures to combat them. however, there are also significant differences in the rules in this area between member states and the scale of the problem varies. in my view, the scale of the problem requires the adoption of eu legislation to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the food supply chain. i voted in favor of the motion. i believe that firm, consistent action is needed to put an end to unfair trading practices in the eu food supply chain once and for all.
in writing. ‒ many member states have recognised that unfair trading practices cause harm and have taken measures to combat them. however, there are also significant differences in the rules in this area between member states and the scale of the problem varies. in my view, the scale of the problem requires the adoption of eu legislation to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the food supply chain. i voted in favor of the motion. i believe that firm, consistent action is needed to put an end to unfair trading practices in the eu food supply chain once and for all.
in writing. a balanced, supportive report, which highlights a long list of manifestations of unfair commercial practices. farmers are particularly vulnerable to multinational trading chains, as agricultural production already started cannot be stopped and products are perishable. it rightly lacks the existence of any eu legislation aimed at combating unfair practices between the various actors in the agri-food chain. he wants to see tough penalties for abuses of power in the food chain. it is essential to replace the missing legal framework.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission published a communication urging member states to examine how to provide greater protection for small food producers and retailers against unfair trading practices, which often occur in business relationships where one party is in a stronger position than the other. the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection finds that unfair trading practices in business-to-business relations have become more prominent in recent years, with unfair trading practices becoming relatively widespread, in particular in certain parts of the supply chain. in a march 2011 survey, 96% of respondents in the food supply chain said they had been exposed to at least one unfair trading practice. it urges decisive and consistent action to end unfair trading practices in the eu food supply chain once and for all. the scale of the problem calls for union rules to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the food supply chain, and for unfair trading practices to be clearly identified and sanctioned. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because unfair trading practices affect both producers and consumers. a more transparent trading system is needed. these practices include late payment, restrictions on market access, unilateral or retroactive changes to contract terms, unexpected and unjustified termination of contracts, unfair transfer of business risks, and reimbursement of transport and storage costs to suppliers. unfortunately, all these bad practices are found in hungary, and the government has monopolized a government-owned chain of stores at the same time as it introduced the sunday shop closure. but there are many other tools, such as special taxes, selective controls and intimidation, which would be unthinkable in the single european market. i believe that one important gap in trade practices is the range of different levels of food tax burden, which also affects producers and consumers and has a significant budgetary impact due to vat fraud. in hungary, the food industry accounts for the largest share of 27%, but with government support, some traders can add various indirect charges such as insurance premiums. there is existing eu legislation against unfair trading practices between businesses and consumers, so i agree that we should extend this to the operators in the agricultural trade chain, as the competition rules cover only part of the area.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there is an urgent need for the eu and the world to produce more safe, healthy and nutritious food to combat problems such as malnutrition, obesity, cardiovascular disease, etc. as at least one third of food produced ends up as waste on average, and in some sectors even half, one of the most effective ways of meeting this forecasted demand without exhausting limited resources is to use technological solutions to increase production, improve distribution channels and eliminate food waste. i consider the progress made in applied research in recent years to be important, but greater efforts are needed to ensure the transfer of knowledge to end-users and to involve farmers and other users of agricultural technologies and products, including smallholders. i would like the commission to ensure that, alongside scientific and technological innovation, traditional techniques and economies continue to flourish, as they represent a huge asset: they are the guarantors of the diversity of culture, the countryside, history and tourism. at the same time, they provide a livelihood for a whole range of small farmers in many regions of europe. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the mcintyre report on technological solutions for sustainable eu agriculture. agriculture has always relied on new agricultural business models and practices, including new technologies and production methods aimed at increasing yields and adapting to new and changing environments. i believe that precision farming technologies are of paramount importance for development and innovation. i believe that the principles underpinning precision farming can bring significant benefits to the environment, increase farmers' incomes, rationalise the use of agricultural machinery and significantly increase resource efficiency, including the efficiency of water use for irrigation. i therefore encourage the european commission to promote policies that encourage the uptake of precision farming technologies in all types of farms, irrespective of their size or production profile. i voted against the passage of the new genetic modification technologies. these new technologies have not yet been subject to any safety testing of the processes and should therefore be subject to the general ban on gmos for the time being.
in writing. ‒ food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. the decline in available land, environmental loss and degradation, water scarcity, increasing energy demand and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting significant pressure on our natural environment. the report by the committee on agriculture and rural development states that technological innovation is an essential element of the solution. it advocates that the eu become a global leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability. it calls for europe to have a dynamic agricultural sector that develops a wide range of innovation and technologies in all types of farming. it emphasises that the benefits of technological innovation should be available to all farmers. it also notes that european agriculture is still lagging behind many of its international competitors and that this can only be helped by sustained and prioritised investments in the research fund. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i agree that intensive food production needs to be developed in a sustainable way because of population growth, as the world population is expected to reach 9.6 billion by 2050, an increase of about 2.4 billion people compared to the total world population today. that is why i voted in favour of the report. i believe that one important element of this process is the reduction of food waste, which has reached critical proportions in some member states. to address this, i propose that social instruments be developed at eu level. another important element is innovation, which i think will only be successful if the actual farmers are given the opportunity. i think the european innovation partnership is a good thing, but it would be nice to see the concrete results. in some member states, such as hungary, the balance between livestock and crop production is still a problem, as is the lack of responsible land use and precision tools such as efficient irrigation systems. another major challenge is energy, with global energy demand forecast to increase by 40% by 2030, and i agree that this demand needs to be met by increasing energy efficiency and building a secure energy mix that includes renewable energy. unfortunately, the hungarian government is lagging behind in this area as well. of course, all of this requires a source, and without it, we can only speak of a theoretical debate. the commission should therefore propose concrete solutions.
in writing. ‒ with the growth of the global population, meeting the demand for healthy food and optimal nutrition has become one of the greatest challenges in the world today. food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. the decline in available land, environmental loss and degradation, water scarcity, increasing energy demand and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting significant pressure on our natural environment. for farmers, therefore, the challenge of sustainably producing food is growing. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ i believe that population growth, higher average incomes and changing consumer habits will change dietary habits, leading to an increase in the demand for processed foods and animal proteins, such as meat and dairy products, in particular. at the same time, small and medium-sized family farms are an integral part of the european agricultural sector, the basis for creating socially and economically vibrant rural areas that contribute to the preservation of the cultural and natural heritage. these farms sometimes have difficulties in taking advantage of modern production methods and practices, which could provide them with a decent income and improve the living and working conditions of farmers and promote the creation of quality jobs. innovation must address food waste and in particular the problem of regular food waste, as more than 100 million tonnes of food are thrown away in europe every year, representing some 30 to 50% of the food produced in the eu. i believe that more cooperation is needed to reduce the current level of waste. the outdated regulatory framework should not restrict innovative ways of processing food waste and the exchange of best practices should be encouraged in order to combat food waste and loss. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the huitema report on agricultural innovation. agriculture has always developed new practices, techniques and production methods that have increased yields, improved the adaptability of agricultural practices to new and changing conditions and reduced production costs. it should be seen that agriculture and forestry are key parts of our world that provide goods and services beyond food production and that can be strengthened by promoting new developments. i see innovation as a prerequisite for sustaining this progress.
in writing. the report's greatest strength is its balance, in that it promotes the preservation of traditional farming structures where possible, while encouraging innovation where appropriate. it's really a good fit for, say, grazing livestock in the gray herd and, a little further away, large-scale farming with gps-controlled tractors. it is important to note that although the eu agri-food market is one of the most integrated markets in europe, it is necessary to establish a framework that ensures a level playing field and fair competition in the agri-food sector in all member states in order to stimulate economic development. all of this is supportable.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development states that the world population will exceed 9 billion people by 2050. at the same time, eating habits are changing rapidly, with more consumers demanding animal protein, such as dairy products and meat. this makes it imperative to reduce the ecological footprint of agricultural production in order to alleviate the pressure on our environment and arable land. it concludes that the cap must give greater emphasis to the needs of farmers, without compromising political objectives, and therefore leave sufficient flexibility to enhance innovation and competitiveness. precision agriculture and the use of big data will transform agriculture and help us produce more products with less use of resources and more targeted interventions to fight diseases and pests. it considers targeted incentives for production processes and investments to be essential. it is also calling for the updating of outdated legislation to adapt to new solutions, such as the replacement of fertilisers with manure produced from animal manure. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. i agree with the need to promote innovation and economic development in agriculture, which is why i voted in favour of the report. i agree that as far back as agriculture has been around, agricultural practices have changed, whether they're structural or production processes. i share the view that these changes have made agriculture one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy. but i believe that the drive for innovation will not be achieved by one stroke or by a mere central incentive. the importance of this needs to be understood at member state level and innovation and economic incentives need to be provided at local level. for example, to reduce food waste, social channels can be found, food should be used in time rather than thrown away. with regard to the new, innovative procedure for the award of a knighthood, i believe it is important that we receive a commission opinion as soon as possible in order to prevent unjustified social rejection. breeding is not to be confused with gmo techniques. but to create an environment that is conducive to innovation, we need to create harmony in the areas of energy, taxation and production, all of which have an impact on innovation. i also believe that it is important to increase knowledge and awareness of ecosystem issues, which will allow for a more rational use of the interaction between chemical and biological measures. targeted incentives linked to production processes and investments are therefore essential.
in writing. ‒ farming practices have been changing since agriculture began, whether they are structural or linked to the production process. these changes have made agriculture one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy: today's farming practices are modern. the development of the rural economy and the uptake of new technologies by the sector ensure that it keeps pace with wider economic developments. better use of the innovation capacity will ensure that agriculture can be part of many solutions. i supported him with my vote.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you mentioned that investment is also needed in the countries that are the source of the current wave of migration. i have two questions. one is whether you consider it appropriate to extend the juncker plan to such a programme. and my second question is, do you see a role for the foreign service in strengthening bilateral relations, to go beyond just the financial side?
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president! - what are you doing? allow me to address this point in the context of the whole issue of migration, because these are very closely related issues. the commission's proposals, all those we have just heard and those we have heard before, must be aimed at reducing the overall burden on europe. and it is now clear that the protection of the union's external borders, including its maritime borders, is a priority for european interests. and it's not just our interest, it's our humanitarian responsibility, because uncertain steps can be interpreted as an invitation to hundreds of thousands of people looking for a better life. and if we do it consistently, if we do everything we can to stop people from coming illegally into the union, we might be able to stop the mediterranean from becoming a mass grave. and what's crucial to that, as we heard in the last debate, is that we have to separate the real refugees from the migrants and we have to send back the illegal economic migrants. we have to make a sacrifice and do our part to address the causes of the migration wave. our development and visa policies must be made dependent on cooperation with third countries. but it is clearly an obvious and important recognition - and i am pleased to hear it today - that urgent responses to illegal migration cannot be confused with medium and long-term responses to demographic and labour market challenges. the latter should take into account the specific situation of the member states and should be decided by the member states in a sovereign manner. no mandatory and automatic mechanism may be introduced. the blockade proposal should take into account the high rate of unemployment among europe's skilled young people and this initiative should be designed accordingly. the integration of migrants into the eu has not been very successful, and new complex problems are becoming more and more apparent, with education playing a major role. we must say that europe's capacity to integrate is limited and that we are committed to our traditional european values. we expect those who want to live in europe to respect these, and so integration can be facilitated.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to raise a painful issue with you, asking whether it is acceptable for you, for example, when the government of a member state specifically the hungarian government declares that it does not want to take in a single person. no refugees, no legal immigrants, not one. what do you think this attitude can do?
madam president, please. in recent weeks, a number of reports have been prepared or are in the process of being prepared, which are seen as pillars of the common european asylum policy. integrated european border management, the reform of the european asylum office and the reform of the dublin convention all aim to ensure that asylum and immigration are dealt with in a controlled, regulated manner, with respect for fundamental rights and human dignity. it is essential that the commission now takes the next step and starts to develop a strategy for european integration. if we can't create that, if we can't offer meaningful futures, hope and opportunity to the refugees who come here, then the whole of european refugee policy is meaningless. we need measures to promote a welcoming society, social cohesion and to combat xenophobia and populist politics, which unfortunately also find their voice in this parliament.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this program actually started in 2010, and it's a horizon that runs through 2020, and we're about halfway there. when we first put this agenda forward, in 2010, the same year that the government of viktor orbán - you're sitting in your group - lowered the mandatory school age from 18 to 16. did you agree with that, or did you tell the orbáns that it was wrong?
in writing. – the new skills agenda aims at improving the teaching and recognition of skills across the eu. it will boost employability and competitiveness and it will better respond to industry needs. the goal is to achieve a shared vision and a commitment to work together on improving the quality and relevance of skills formation, in order to keep step with the rapidly changing skills requirements of the labour market, equip everyone with a minimum set of basic skills and make qualifications easier to understand – thus helping workers and learners to move more easily within the eu. in this context, i welcome the comprehensive approach put forward by the commission to address the basic deficit of skills and the skills mismatch at all levels, including transversal, entrepreneurial and digital skills. we need to continue investing in europe’s human capital in order to maintain our competitiveness. i welcome very much the revised european qualifications framework, which will improve understanding of qualifications acquired abroad. i am convinced that it is important to promote the comparability of qualifications between the countries covered by the eqf and other countries, in particular neighbourhood countries such as ukraine. this will help to ease the transition to the labour market and to create jobs and growth.
in writing. the new european skills agenda aims to support the discovery and development of skills from childhood. this will create social capital that will increase employability and competitiveness in europe and thereby reduce poverty and social exclusion. as a good example of what already exists in this field, i would like to mention the hungarian talent support network, created by professor péter csermely. during the past year, the hungarian initiative was put into practice at european level and the eu-wide talent support network was established. the first 14 european talent centres were accredited last september, and this year 200 european talent centres from 24 countries have applied to be part of this network. and the discovery and nurturing of talent is the key to individual well-being, ensuring a more secure future for the rising generations. the new european skills agenda has a major role to play in this.
mr president it is almost ten years since the european parliament addressed the cia's operation to transport and detain prisoners illegally and secretly in eu member states. the evidence is there, but the confession is still pending. all documents shall bear the following indication: and the member states involved are not cooperating to clarify the matter. the name of the person responsible under every document: cia. the cia is not a country. we dare not speak out against the supreme leaders of the united states? are we afraid of big brother's displeasure? it's time to set the record straight, set the record straight, and then expect the consequences.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity, madam president, and you, mr. representative, for the chance to respond. you mentioned that there are certain distortions, although you think this plan is good overall. i would like to ask you, in light of this, how do you know that no applications have been received from certain member states, including hungary, for example? what could possibly encourage these countries that are not applying to do something about geographical balance?
in writing. ‒ member state governments have a great responsibility both to increase tax revenues and to prevent the financing of terrorism. however, it is essential that they do so in a transparent manner and in strict compliance with the legislation in force. i therefore voted in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry into alleged contraventions and maladministration in the implementation of eu legislation on money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud, defining its powers, number of members and term of office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to carry out a comprehensive investigation into alleged irregularities and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. cooperation between tax authorities in the member states is more important than ever to combat tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. the global economic and financial crisis of recent years has brought the importance and validity of burden-sharing to the attention of the public. it is estimated that member states lose billions of euros in revenue due to corporate tax avoidance. companies take advantage of the complexity of tax rules and the lack of cooperation between member states to redistribute their profits and to minimise their tax liabilities. it is therefore essential to promote transparency and cooperation in the fight against aggressive tax planning and abusive tax practices. the importance of this has been further highlighted by the panama papers scandal, which makes the establishment of a commission of inquiry inevitable. the commission should also be able to verify whether the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of directive 2005/60/ec,
in writing. ‒ tax havens and tax avoidance opportunities for large companies need to be tackled more effectively than at present. member states should also cooperate in the harmonisation of tax rates. this is necessary to avoid the abuse of loopholes arising from the differences in the legal regimes of the member states and to reduce the potential for abuse and fraud. the european commission's proposal is a step in the right direction, but the european parliament's proposal, partly as a result of amendments tabled by the green members of the european parliament, goes even further than the commission's proposal, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ 337 meps have requested the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged irregularities and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. on this basis, the conference of presidents proposed to parliament the setting up of a committee of inquiry of 65 members, with the obligation for the committee to submit a final report within 12 months of the adoption of the decision. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged irregularities and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. the committee's role is to fill a gap and its establishment is essential, as a number of directives have been the subject of strong suspicions that they have not been properly implemented by the commission or implemented and enforced by the member states. i welcome the establishment of the panel as the first of its main activities to investigate and specifically assess whether an infringement may have arisen from the failure to take measures aimed at preventing the operation of financial instruments that allow beneficial owners to hide from financial institutions and other intermediaries, lawyers, asset managers and corporate service providers. we will also have the opportunity to review the operation of other tools and intermediaries that enable money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance in different countries.
in writing. ‒ 337 meps submitted a request to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged irregularities and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. i supported it with my vote, of course.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political significance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we give our consent to the agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of republic of palau when travelling to the each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days. we welcome the agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas as politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. this is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and enhancing political dialogue. we however call on the commission to observe any developments in relation to the criteria on clandestine immigration, public policy and security.
in writing. ‒ the council has presented a draft decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the decision shall require the consent of parliament. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement). the agreement on visa-free travel for short stays is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the republic of palau, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool to strengthen economic and cultural links and to encourage political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political significance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we give our consent to the agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of republic of tonga when travelling to the each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days. we welcome the agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas as politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. this is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and enhancing political dialogue. we however call on the commission to observe any developments in relation to the criteria on clandestine immigration, public policy and security.
in writing. ‒ the council has presented a draft decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver. the decision shall require the consent of parliament. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement). the agreement on visa-free short-stay visas is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool to strengthen economic and cultural links and to encourage political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political significance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ today we voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of colombia when travelling to each other’s territory, for a maximum period of 90 days. this agreement is significant for stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues. we call on the commission and the authorities of colombia to ensure enhancing the cooperation agreement concerning irregular migration. colombia should also become a key partner in the field of security and the fight against organised crime, including drug trafficking, which represent an important aspect of cooperation.
in writing. cuddling palm trees, caressing beach sand, azure ocean - these are probably the images that come to mind for most people when they hear the name colombia. for those who don't, it's drug dealing, smuggling emeralds, counterfeiting money. according to 2015 statistics, based on murders per 100,000 inhabitants, two of the 10 most dangerous cities in the world are in colombia, and the country as a whole is ranked 23rd, but it is preceded by countries that are largely at war. is it good for us if we can get visa-free entry into the eu for tired mobsters to relax? true, if you're just visiting to exchange tax-optimization or corruption experience, you're in the right place.
in writing. ‒ the council has presented a draft decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. the decision shall require the consent of parliament. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement would also strengthen regional coherence, as colombia is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens require a visa, and would thus make a significant contribution to bringing europeans and colombians closer together. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement (hereinafter referred to as ita), concluded in december 1996 at the singapore ministerial conference, entered into force in 1997. while the agreement was originally concluded by only 29 wto members, it now has 82 participants. the ita requires that all parties to the agreement abolish and set at zero the most-favoured-nation duties on all information technology products covered by the agreement. in may 2012, six countries (the eu, the usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica) entered into negotiations to extend the product scope of the agreement. they were joined by 21 other members. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached on an additional list of 201 it products. under this agreement, participants are required to submit schedules with a phasing-out commitment for each product, covering a transitional period of up to 7 years (3 years for normal phasing-out, 5 years for sensitive products and 7 years in exceptional cases). as a result of the negotiations, approximately 65% of the tariff groups will be completely abolished by 1 july 2016. by 2019, almost all imports of the products concerned will be duty-free. the extension of the ita is considered to be a milestone. this is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the wto was established, with huge job creation and gdp growth potential. that is why i voted in favour of parliament giving its consent to the agreement.
in writing. the first information technology agreement (hereinafter referred to as 'ita'), concluded in december 1996 at the singapore ministerial conference, entered into force in 1997. while the agreement was originally concluded by only 29 wto members, it now has 82 participants. the ita requires that all parties to the agreement abolish and set at zero the most-favoured-nation duties on all information technology products covered by the agreement. the ita covers some 200 tariff groups, including computers, telephones, but also input units, components and machines for the production of information technology devices. in may 2012, six countries (the eu, the usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica) entered into negotiations to extend the product scope of the agreement. they were joined by 21 other members. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached on an additional list of 201 it products. under this agreement, participants are required to submit schedules with a phasing-out commitment for each product, covering a transitional period of up to 7 years (3 years for normal phasing-out, 5 years for sensitive products and 7 years in exceptional cases). as a result of the negotiations, approximately 65% of the tariff groups will be completely abolished by 1 july 2016. by 2019, almost all imports of the products concerned will be duty-free. the agreement in the form of a declaration on the extension of the ita (and the roadmaps containing the participants' commitment to phasing) was adopted by the ministers of the participating countries on 16 december 2015 at the wto ... (abbreviated written declaration pursuant to article 183 of the rules of procedure)
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement (hereinafter referred to as ita), concluded in december 1996 at the singapore ministerial conference, entered into force in 1997. while the agreement was originally concluded by only 29 wto members, it now has 82 participants. the ita requires that all parties to the agreement abolish and set at zero the most-favoured-nation duties on all information technology products covered by the agreement. the ita covers some 200 tariff groups, including computers, telephones, but also input units, components and machines for the production of information technology devices. in may 2012, six countries (the eu, the usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica) entered into negotiations to extend the product scope of the agreement. they were joined by 21 other members. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached on an additional list of 201 it products. under this agreement, participants are required to submit schedules with a phasing-out commitment for each product, covering a transitional period of up to 7 years (3 years for normal phasing-out, 5 years for sensitive products and 7 years in exceptional cases). the agreement in the form of a declaration on the extension of the ita (and the roadmaps containing the commitment of the participants to phase-out) was adopted by the ministers of the participating countries at the 10th ministerial conference of the wto in nairobi on 16 december 2015. the extension of the ita is considered to be a milestone. that is why i voted in favour of parliament giving its consent to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement (ita), concluded in december 1996 at the singapore ministerial conference, entered into force in 1997. the ita requires that all parties to the agreement abolish and set at zero the most-favoured-nation duties on all information technology products covered by the agreement. the ita covers some 200 tariff groups, including computers, telephones, but also input units, components and machines for the production of information technology devices. in may 2012, six countries started negotiations to extend the product scope of the agreement. they were joined by 21 other members. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached on an additional list of 201 it products. under this agreement, participants are required to submit timetables with a phasing-in commitment for each product, covering a transitional period of up to 7 years. as a result of the negotiations, approximately 65% of the tariff groups will be completely abolished by 1 july 2016. by 2019, almost all imports of the products concerned will be duty-free. the agreement on the extension of the ita, in the form of a declaration, was adopted by the ministers of the participating countries at the 10th ministerial conference of the wto in nairobi on 16 december 2015. the extension of the ita is considered to be a milestone. this is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the wto was established, with huge job creation and gdp growth potential. that is why i voted in favour of parliament giving its consent to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement (hereinafter referred to as ita), concluded in december 1996 at the singapore ministerial conference, entered into force in 1997. while the agreement was originally concluded by only 29 wto members, it now has 82 participants. the ita requires that all parties to the agreement abolish and set at zero the most-favoured-nation duties on all information technology products covered by the agreement. the ita covers some 200 tariff groups, including computers, telephones, but also input units, components and machines for the production of information technology devices. in may 2012, six countries (the eu, the usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica) entered into negotiations to extend the product scope of the agreement. they were joined by 21 other members. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached on an additional list of 201 it products. the extension of the ita is considered to be a milestone. this is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the wto was established, with huge job creation and gdp growth potential. that is why i voted in favour of parliament giving its consent to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement (hereinafter referred to as ita), concluded in december 1996 at the singapore ministerial conference, entered into force in 1997. while the agreement was originally concluded by only 29 wto members, it now has 82 participants. the ita requires that all parties to the agreement abolish and set at zero the most-favoured-nation duties on all information technology products covered by the agreement. the ita covers some 200 tariff groups, including computers, telephones and input units for the production of information technology devices. in may 2012, six countries (the eu, the usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica) started negotiations to extend the product scope of the agreement. they were joined by 21 other members. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached on an additional list of 201 it products. under this agreement, participants are required to submit schedules with a phasing-out commitment for each product, covering a transitional period of up to 7 years (3 years for normal phasing-out, 5 years for sensitive products and 7 years in exceptional cases). as a result of the negotiations, approximately 65% of the tariff groups will be completely abolished by 1 july 2016. by 2019, almost all imports of the products concerned will be duty-free. the extension of the ita is a milestone. this is the first trade-reduction agreement of major scope since the wto was established, with the potential to create jobs and increase gdp, and i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the ita requires all participants to eliminate and set at zero the most-favoured-nation duties on all information technology products covered by the agreement. the ita covers some 200 tariff groups, including computers, telephones, but also input units, components and machines for the production of information technology devices. in may 2012, six countries the eu, the usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica started negotiations to extend the product scope of the agreement. they were joined by 21 other members. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached on an additional list of 201 it products. under this agreement, participants are required to submit timetables with a phasing-in commitment for each product, covering a transitional period of up to 7 years. as a result of the negotiations, approximately 65% of the tariff groups will be completely abolished by 1 july 2016. by 2019, almost all imports of the products concerned will be duty-free. the extension of the ita is considered to be a milestone. this is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the wto was established, with huge job creation and gdp growth potential. that is why i voted in favour of parliament giving its consent to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the ita requires all participants to eliminate and set at zero the most-favoured-nation duties on all information technology products covered by the agreement. the ita covers some 200 tariff groups, including computers, telephones, but also input units, components and machines for the production of information technology devices. under this agreement, participants are required to submit schedules with a phasing-out commitment for each product, covering a transitional period of up to 7 years (3 years for normal phasing-out, 5 years for sensitive products and 7 years in exceptional cases). as a result of the negotiations, approximately 65% of the tariff groups will be completely abolished by 1 july 2016. by 2019, almost all imports of the products concerned will be duty-free. the agreement in the form of a declaration on the extension of the ita (and the roadmaps containing the commitment of the participants to phase-out) was adopted by the ministers of the participating countries at the 10th ministerial conference of the wto in nairobi on 16 december 2015. the extension of the ita is considered to be a milestone. this is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the wto was established, with huge job creation and gdp growth potential. that is why i voted in favour of parliament giving its consent to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ in may 2012, the eu, the usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica began negotiations on the extension of the scope of the information technology agreement concluded in singapore in december 1996. they were joined by 21 other participants in the original agreement. on 24 july 2015, they reached an agreement on an additional list of 201 it products, including new generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical devices including magnetic resonance imaging devices, printed circuit board tooling machines, telecommunications satellites and touch screens. the annual trade in these products is estimated at over usd 1,3 trillion, representing about 10% of total global trade today. the council has submitted a draft decision on the conclusion of the agreement on behalf of the european union in the form of a declaration. the decision shall require the consent of parliament. the report of the committee on international trade points out that this is the first tariff reduction agreement since the establishment of the wto with a high volume and a huge potential for job creation and gdp growth and therefore recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement (hereinafter referred to as ita), concluded in december 1996 at the singapore ministerial conference, entered into force in 1997. while the agreement was originally concluded by only 29 wto members, it now has 82 participants. the ita requires that all parties to the agreement abolish and set at zero the most-favoured-nation duties on all information technology products covered by the agreement. the ita covers some 200 tariff groups, including computers, telephones, but also input units, components and machines for the production of information technology devices. in may 2012, six countries (the eu, the usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica) entered into negotiations to extend the product scope of the agreement. they were joined by 21 other members. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached on an additional list of 201 it products. the agreement in the form of a declaration on the extension of the ita (and the roadmaps containing the commitment of the participants to phase-out) was adopted by the ministers of the participating countries at the 10th ministerial conference of the wto in nairobi on 16 december 2015. the extension of the ita is considered to be a milestone. this is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the wto was established, with huge job creation and gdp growth potential. that is why i voted in favour of parliament giving its consent to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on an agreement to expand trade in information technology products, as it has a high potential for job creation and gdp growth. since the first it agreement was concluded in december 1996, it was timely to extend the range of products covered. for all information technology products covered by the agreement, the parties shall eliminate and set at zero the duties on the basis of the most-favoured-nation principle. it is encouraging that the products covered by the current extension of the it agreement cover eur 189 billion of eu exports and this figure is expected to increase significantly following the tariff reductions. the agreement results in lower prices for consumers but also for producers that depend on imported parts. however, as the recommendation notes, certain sectors will face increased competition. it is therefore welcome that the eu has managed to provide a longer phasing-in period for some sensitive products in the course of the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement (hereinafter referred to as ita), concluded in december 1996 at the singapore ministerial conference, entered into force in 1997. while the agreement was originally concluded by only 29 wto members, it now has 82 participants. the extension of the ita is considered to be a milestone. this is the first tariff reduction agreement since the establishment of the wto with a huge potential for job creation and gdp growth. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the council decision proposed for support by the ep will make cooperation between member states more effective in tackling α-pvp, this dangerous psychotropic substance. α-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant. the substance detected in the 28 member states, as well as in turkey and norway, is mainly imported from china for the eu drug market and is distributed throughout europe. the presence of α-pvp was detected in a total of 115 deaths and 191 acute poisonings in eight member states. the purpose of the draft council decision is to call on the member states to subject α-pvp to control measures and criminal sanctions in accordance with the provisions of their legislation based on their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. we all have a common interest in combating the use of psychotropic substances, so i naturally supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the council has submitted a draft decision to subject 1-phenyl-2- ((pyrrolidine-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidine-valerophenone, α-pvp) to control measures as a new psychoactive substance. it shall consult parliament before adopting its decision. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament approve the council's draft. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report approving the draft council decision on the control measures to be applied to the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((pyrrolidine-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidine-valerophenone, α-pvp). new psychoactive substances are new drugs in pure form or in preparation or new psychotropic drugs that may be harmful to health. i consider the council decision on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances to be important, as i believe that the specific risks inherent in the development of psychoactive substances require rapid action by the member states. this is also important with reference to the council regulation as new psychoactive substances are not subject to criminal law regulation in all member states, problems may arise in cooperation between the judicial authorities and law enforcement services of the member states as the offence or offences in question are not equally punishable under the laws of the requesting and requested states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the document in line with the s&d group's position on the draft council decision to subject 1-phenyl-2-pyrrolidine-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidine-valerophenone, α-pvp) to control measures as a new psychoactive substance.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions on liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied propane-butane gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. based on experience with similar international systems governing liability for damage in connection with other maritime transport activities, imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions on liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied propane-butane gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. based on experience with similar international systems governing liability for damage in connection with other maritime transport activities, imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions dealing with liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied propane-butane gas (lpg). based on experience with similar international systems governing liability for damage in connection with other maritime transport activities, imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions on liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied propane-butane gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. based on experience with similar international systems governing liability for damage in connection with other maritime transport activities, imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions on liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied propane-butane gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. based on experience with similar international systems governing liability for damage in connection with other maritime transport activities, imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions on liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied propane-butane gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. based on experience with similar international systems governing liability for damage in connection with other maritime transport activities, imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions on liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied propane-butane gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. based on the experience gained from similar international systems governing liability for damage in connection with other maritime transport activities, imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions on liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied propane-butane gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. based on experience with similar international systems governing liability for damage in connection with other maritime transport activities, imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the council has presented a draft decision on the ratification by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of the protocol of 2010 to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with the exception of aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters, and on their accession to it. the decision shall require the consent of parliament. the committee on legal affairs makes a number of recommendations in its report and suggests that parliament should take the view that this interim report should be a further opportunity for the council and the commission to address these recommendations. it therefore recommends that parliament invite the council and the commission to hold further negotiations taking into account the recommendations. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions on liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied propane-butane gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. based on experience with similar international systems governing liability for damage in connection with other maritime transport activities, imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report which makes recommendations to the council and the commission on the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with a view to developing a coherent eu policy. i agree with the report that it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a homogeneous system of liability for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea. the report aims to contribute to this by making recommendations to ensure that the transposition of the international system is carried out in the most efficient and equitable way possible, without prejudice to the unity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of union law and without creating excessive inequalities for the victims of pollution and the shipping sector.
in writing. ‒ given that the transport of dangerous and harmful substances constitutes a significant part of the maritime freight transport, and given the global nature of the shipping industry and the expected cross-border impact of accidents involving consignments of dangerous and harmful substances, the rapporteur considers that it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a homogeneous system of liability for environmental damage resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, which can only be achieved if the council and the commission take due account of the recommendations of its parliaments. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas and liquefied propane butane gas, which has not yet been ratified. the convention lays down the objective liability of the owner of a ship for any damage resulting from an accident involving dangerous and noxious substances carried on board the ship in question. it provides for a limited number of exceptions to the owner's strict liability, which are accompanied by the owner's obligation to have insurance or other financial security to cover his liability for damage covered by the convention. more importantly, they will establish a special compensation fund to compensate any person who suffers damage resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, if he or she has not received full and adequate compensation from the ship owner and its insurer. the rapporteur wishes to initiate a dialogue with the council and the commission in order to develop a coherent eu policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea. i supported the proposal because it provides a reasonable and justified authorisation to accede to an international convention.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the currently fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the very specific nature of the jurisdictional system of the echr resulting from the efforts to prevent forum shopping and the legal and practical difficulties arising from the application of a different jurisdictional system to the union and to the other parties to the echr justify an exception from the general application of the recast brussels i regulation. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the currently fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions dealing with liability and compensation for damage resulting from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the very specific nature of the jurisdictional system of the echr resulting from the efforts to prevent forum shopping and the legal and practical difficulties arising from the application of a different jurisdictional system to the union and to the other parties to the echr justify an exception from the general application of the recast brussels i regulation. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the very specific nature of the jurisdictional system of the echr resulting from the efforts to prevent forum shopping and the legal and practical difficulties arising from the application of a different jurisdictional system to the union and to the other parties to the echr justify an exception from the general application of the recast brussels i regulation. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the very specific nature of the jurisdictional system of the echr resulting from the efforts to prevent forum shopping and the legal and practical difficulties arising from the application of a different jurisdictional system to the union and to the other parties to the echr justify an exception from the general application of the recast brussels i regulation. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the very specific nature of the jurisdictional system of the echr resulting from the efforts to prevent forum shopping and the legal and practical difficulties arising from the application of a different jurisdictional system to the union and to the other parties to the echr justify an exception from the general application of the recast brussels i regulation. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. the interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the very specific nature of the jurisdictional system of the echr resulting from the efforts to prevent forum shopping and the legal and practical difficulties arising from the application of a different jurisdictional system to the union and to the other parties to the echr justify an exception from the general application of the recast brussels i regulation. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the report deals with a very important subject, given the huge volume of maritime freight transport and the significant proportion of dangerous and harmful substances involved. the nature of transport means that any accidents have cross-border effects and that compensation can only be provided under a single system of liability. the report is on the right track to ensure that the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships are applied uniformly across the eu. further dialogue with the council and the commission is also needed to develop a coherent union policy on environmental damage from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, both in terms of liability and compensation.
in writing. ‒ the council has presented a draft decision on the ratification by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of the protocol of 2010 to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with regard to aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters, and on their accession to it. the decision shall require the consent of parliament. the committee on legal affairs makes a number of recommendations in its report and suggests that parliament should take the view that this interim report should be a further opportunity for the council and the commission to address these recommendations. it therefore recommends that parliament invite the council and the commission to hold further negotiations taking into account the recommendations. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, which has not yet been ratified. the imo has adopted and amended this international agreement by the 2010 hns protocol to supplement the system of maritime liability conventions with a specific agreement. neither the 1996 hns convention nor the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have entered into force. the very specific nature of the jurisdictional system of the echr resulting from the efforts to prevent forum shopping and the legal and practical difficulties arising from the application of a different jurisdictional system to the union and to the other parties to the echr justify an exception from the general application of the recast brussels i regulation. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu. this interim report is a step towards the ep initiating a dialogue with the council and the commission to replace the current fragmented system with a regulation at international level. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report which, in the context of the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, makes recommendations to the council and the commission on aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters. i agree with the report that the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances by sea throughout the eu and will also ensure that sufficient resources are available to compensate victims of such accidents. therefore, an international system is more appropriate than regional solutions to ensure the uniform application of the relevant rules throughout the eu, if only because shipping is a global business with cross-border effects. i believe that the recommendations made in the interim report concerning the brussels i regulation help to ensure that the single system of liability is established in the most efficient and equitable way possible.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur intends to initiate a dialogue with the council and the commission in order to develop a coherent eu policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the council has presented a draft decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the decision shall require the consent of parliament. in its recommendation to the committee on foreign affairs, the committee recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation as it accepts that the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, be amended to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. the adoption of this council decision facilitates the process by which the republic of croatia, which acceded to the eu on 1 july 2013, is associated with agreements concluded or signed by member states and the eu with third countries before 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ the eu should continue to provide financial assistance and capacity-building support to the philippines in the areas of poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, and implementation of effective policies to address disaster preparedness, relief and recovery, and climate change. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the council has presented a draft decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. the decision shall require the consent of parliament. in its recommendation to the committee on foreign affairs, the committee recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines, which expresses its support for the conclusion of the agreement. the eu is interested in maintaining dialogue with the countries of the region and in strengthening its external, economic and trade relations. by continuing to provide assistance to the philippines and support capacity building, the eu is contributing to poverty reduction, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and the promotion of peace, security and justice reform. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to combat corruption and to ensure that the rule of law is upheld in the country. as the philippines is among the developing countries most exposed to climate change, eu support for capacity building in this area is of particular importance.
in writing. ‒ the eu should continue to provide financial assistance and capacity-building support to the philippines in the areas of poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, and implementation of effective policies to address disaster preparedness, relief and recovery, and climate change. i voted for it.
in writing. the agreement with the philippines, which is far from the eu's sphere of interest, is not likely to be challenged and can therefore be concluded with broad agreement. it seems obvious, but it somewhat clouds the picture, that the european union is strengthening its relations with an area in the us-china confrontation zone. even with the problems listed in the report, we are sympathetic, because we can appreciate the positive developments and the high level of commitment of your government to further dynamic progress. there is a lot at stake for a country if its government is moving in the right direction, especially if it is strategically located.
in writing. ‒ the committee on foreign affairs also tabled a motion for a resolution, together with its recommendation that the council approve the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and the philippines and the protocol to that framework agreement to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines, which, in addition to welcoming the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines and recognising the efforts made by the country so far, also draws the attention of the philippine government to the importance of promoting human rights and labour rights and the threat posed by isis. the resolution rightly points to the tensions in the south china sea region and the importance of addressing them in a peaceful manner, in accordance with the un convention on the law of the sea, and not by unilateral, provocative measures. as in the resolution, i encourage the philippines to work to further improve the investment environment by enhancing transparency and good governance through the implementation of un guidelines on the human rights responsibilities of business enterprises and by developing infrastructure. i also agree that regular contacts between the european external action service and parliament are necessary to enable parliament to monitor the implementation of the framework agreement and the achievement of its objectives.
in writing. ‒ the eu should continue to provide financial assistance and capacity-building support to the philippines in the areas of poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, and implementation of effective policies to address disaster preparedness, relief and recovery, and climate change. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns additional macro-financial assistance to be provided to tunisia. tunisia has managed to consolidate its democratic transition. it is governed by a grand coalition government, which was formed following free and transparent elections, and it has a modern civil society that is proactive and has been recognised by the tunisian national dialogue quartet with the nobel peace prize. however, tunisia is currently facing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. it is of the utmost importance to the union that tunisia succeed and defeat the calculations of those who want to destabilise the country. the commission will continue to support the development of tunisia in a concrete way that directly benefits the population. on these grounds, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. in addition, the regional security situation is highly uncertain as the country borders libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make important progress towards democratic transition and modernisation of the economic structure. it is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. the reforms have resulted in tunisia fully complying with the political conditions for the assessment of macro-financial assistance. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. this package of support is the second in a series of measures envisaged by the commission in august 2015 at the request of the tunisian government in the form of a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million, to be disbursed in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. in addition, the regional security situation is highly uncertain as the country borders libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make important progress towards democratic transition and the modernisation of its economic structure, and is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. the reforms have resulted in tunisia fully complying with the political conditions for the assessment of macro-financial assistance. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. on 15 may 2014, a support programme of eur 300 million was approved for tunisia. the first two instalments of the programme were paid in 2015 and the third will be paid in 2016. this package of support is the second in a series of measures envisaged by the commission in august 2015 at the request of the tunisian government in the form of a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million, to be disbursed in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. tunisia is currently experiencing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. in addition, the regional security situation is highly uncertain as the country borders libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make important progress towards democratic transition and the modernisation of its economic structure, and is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. the reforms have resulted in tunisia fully complying with the political conditions for the assessment of macro-financial assistance. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. on 15 may 2014, a support programme of eur 300 million was approved for tunisia. the first two instalments of the programme were paid in 2015 and the third will be paid in 2016. this package of support is the second in a series of measures envisaged by the commission in august 2015 at the request of the tunisian government in the form of a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million, to be disbursed in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. in addition, the regional security situation is highly uncertain as the country borders libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make important progress towards democratic transition and the modernisation of its economic structure, and is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. the reforms have resulted in tunisia fully complying with the political conditions for the assessment of macro-financial assistance. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. on 15 may 2014, a support programme of eur 300 million was approved for tunisia. the first two instalments of the programme were paid in 2015 and the third will be paid in 2016. this package of support is the second in a series of measures envisaged by the commission in august 2015 at the request of the tunisian government in the form of a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million, to be disbursed in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. in addition, the regional security situation is highly uncertain as the country borders libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make important progress towards democratic transition and the modernisation of its economic structure, and is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. the reforms have resulted in tunisia fully complying with the political conditions for the assessment of macro-financial assistance. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. on 15 may 2014, a support programme of eur 300 million was approved for tunisia. the first two instalments of the programme were paid in 2015 and the third will be paid in 2016. this package of support is the second in a series of measures envisaged by the commission in august 2015 at the request of the tunisian government in the form of a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million, to be disbursed in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. in addition, the regional security situation is highly uncertain as the country borders libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make important progress towards democratic transition and the modernisation of its economic structure, and is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. the reforms have resulted in tunisia fully complying with the political conditions for the assessment of macro-financial assistance. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. on 15 may 2014, a support programme of eur 300 million was approved for tunisia. the first two instalments of the programme were paid in 2015 and the third will be paid in 2016. this package of support is the second in a series of measures envisaged by the commission in august 2015 at the request of the tunisian government in the form of a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million, to be disbursed in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing major difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, including tourism. the regional security situation is also highly uncertain, as the country borders libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make important progress towards democratic transition and modernisation of its economic structure. it is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. the reforms have resulted in tunisia fully complying with the political conditions for the assessment of macro-financial assistance. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. on 15 may 2014, a support programme of eur 300 million was approved for tunisia. the first two instalments of the programme were paid in 2015 and the third installment will be paid in 2016. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. in addition, the regional security situation is highly uncertain as the country borders libya. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. on 15 may 2014, a support programme of eur 300 million was approved for tunisia. the first two instalments of the programme were paid in 2015 and the third will be paid in 2016. this package of support is the second in a series of measures envisaged by the commission in august 2015 at the request of the tunisian government in the form of a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million, to be disbursed in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. in addition, the regional security situation is highly uncertain as the country borders libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make important progress towards democratic transition and the modernisation of its economic structure, and is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. the reforms have resulted in tunisia fully complying with the political conditions for the assessment of macro-financial assistance. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. on 15 may 2014, a support programme of eur 300 million was approved for tunisia. the first two instalments of the programme were paid in 2015 and the third will be paid in 2016. this package of support is the second in a series of measures envisaged by the commission in august 2015 at the request of the tunisian government in the form of a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million, to be disbursed in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. there have been serious attempts to destabilise tunisia, which have so far been thwarted. to keep this up and to avoid an increase in the number of crisis zones that are emitting migrants, the eu should invest. the aid programme and the accompanying loan programme are not too expensive to maintain stability. the grand coalition government that has been formed is viable and has adequate guarantees. it is essential that the objective to be achieved is not to meet the criteria devised by the imf, but to promote the well-being of the population.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has consolidated its democratic transition. it has a constitution that protects rights and freedoms, an orderly judiciary, and an independent and free media. it is governed by a grand coalition government, which has been elected in free and transparent elections, and it has a modern civil society with a strong sense of initiative. despite the serious difficulties it is currently facing, the country continues to make important progress in consolidating its democratic transition and implementing the reforms needed to modernise its economic structure, as well as in strengthening its relations with its partners, including the european union. it is vital that tunisia succeed and defeat the calculations of those who want to destabilize the country. on 15 may 2014, the eu approved a €300 million support programme for tunisia to support the country's reform efforts. in august 2015, at the request of the tunisian government, the commission provided a second macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million to tunisia, which will be disbursed in the form of a medium-term loan on favourable terms on the financial markets. the commission has now proposed to parliament and the council that this second financial support programme be voted on. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament adopt its position at first reading, as proposed by the commission. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing very serious difficulties. it has also suffered from a number of assassinations and terrorist attacks, which have significantly affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. in addition, the regional security situation is highly uncertain as the country borders libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make important progress towards democratic transition and the modernisation of its economic structure, and is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. the reforms have resulted in tunisia fully complying with the political conditions for the assessment of macro-financial assistance. in order to restore stability to the region, it is essential that tunisia be able to take further steps towards democratic governance and economic development. on 15 may 2014, a support programme of eur 300 million was approved for tunisia. the first two instalments of the programme were paid in 2015 and the third will be paid in 2016. this package of support is the second in a series of measures envisaged by the commission in august 2015 at the request of the tunisian government in the form of a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 500 million, to be disbursed in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this assistance programme will be used to support reforms aimed at improving tunisia's fiscal position, balancing its balance of payments and creating favourable conditions for investment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has managed to consolidate its democratic transition. it now has a constitution that protects rights and freedoms, an orderly judiciary, and an independent and free media. it is governed by a grand coalition government, which was formed following free and transparent elections, and it has a modern civil society that is proactive and has been recognised by the tunisian national dialogue quartet with the nobel peace prize. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report is about limiting aggressive tax optimisation. the european council resolution of december 2014 recognised the need to 'urgently promote efforts to combat tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning at both global and union level'. since december 2014, the commission has already taken the first steps towards the union approach and in the meantime the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) has also completed its work on the definition of global rules and standards for this purpose, which is used in this proposal. according to an oecd study, the aggressive tax optimisation of multinational companies is causing a global annual budget loss of between 100 and 240 billion dollars, and therefore requires coordinated action. i also voted in favour of the proposal because it does not restrict member states' sovereignty over their own tax systems too much.
in writing. ‒ a coordinated and harmonised implementation of tax systems is key to ensuring the proper functioning of the single market and the success of the capital markets union. i voted in favour of the report. i believe that the proposals contained therein will make the patent legislation clearer and more uniform. multinational companies still exploit the tax incentives associated with filing patents to artificially reduce the amount of their profits. in my opinion, this has a detrimental effect on truly innovative countries. i am pleased that the rapporteur has also confirmed the role of parliament. i myself believe that the european parliament should be entrusted with the task of monitoring the actual implementation of the directive in the 28 member states.
in writing. a coordinated and harmonised implementation of tax systems is key to ensuring the proper functioning of the single market and the success of the capital markets union. i voted in favour of the report. i believe that the proposals contained therein will make the patent legislation clearer and more uniform. multinational companies still exploit the tax incentives associated with filing patents to artificially reduce the amount of their profits. in my opinion, this has a detrimental effect on truly innovative countries. i am pleased that the rapporteur has also confirmed the role of parliament. i myself believe that the european parliament should be entrusted with the task of monitoring the actual implementation of the directive in the 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ a coordinated and harmonised implementation of tax systems is key to ensuring the proper functioning of the single market and the success of the capital markets union. i voted in favour of the report. i believe that the proposals contained therein will make the patent legislation clearer and more uniform. multinational companies still exploit the tax incentives associated with filing patents to artificially reduce the amount of their profits. in my opinion, this has a detrimental effect on truly innovative countries. i am pleased that the rapporteur has also confirmed the role of parliament. i myself believe that the european parliament should be entrusted with the task of monitoring the actual implementation of the directive in the 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the bayet report on rules to combat aggressive tax planning practices. i welcome the establishment of the appropriate regulatory framework to prevent similar tax planning practices. it is shocking that a recent oecd study found that aggressive tax optimization by multinational corporations causes annual budget deficits of $100 to $240 billion worldwide. this represents 410% of the taxes paid by companies worldwide. this is particularly a sensitive revenue loss for those states where it is precisely this that reduces the resources available for investments to stimulate job creation, eradicate poverty and develop effective health care systems. we need to stop the practice of multinational companies exploiting the tax incentives associated with filing patents to artificially reduce the amount of their profits.
in writing. ‒ a coordinated and harmonised implementation of tax systems is key to ensuring the proper functioning of the single market and the success of the capital markets union. i supported the report because the proposals contained in it make the patent legislation clearer and more uniform. multinational companies still exploit the tax incentives associated with filing patents to artificially reduce the amount of their profits. in my opinion, this has a detrimental effect on truly innovative countries. the rapporteur also confirmed the role of parliament, as the european parliament should be entrusted with the task of monitoring the actual implementation of the directive in the 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ a coordinated and harmonised implementation of tax systems is key to ensuring the proper functioning of the single market and the success of the capital markets union. i voted in favour of the report. i believe that the proposals contained therein will make the patent legislation clearer and more uniform. multinational companies still exploit the tax incentives associated with filing patents to artificially reduce the amount of their profits. in my opinion, this has a detrimental effect on truly innovative countries. i am pleased that the rapporteur has also confirmed the role of parliament. i myself believe that the european parliament should be entrusted with the task of monitoring the actual implementation of the directive in the 28 member states.
in writing. as we can see from many examples, the power of the supposedly democratically elected leaders of countries can only extend as long as the interests of the international financial elite are not threatened. the milder manifestation of this is the aggressive tax optimization of multinational corporations, which still causes huge damage to budgets. in fact, there's no way to know how much. estimates show a multiple variance, but the order of magnitude is 100 billion euros. the text of the report is very complex, but it should nevertheless be welcomed as a step towards clear regulation, and the regulation sought does not unduly restrict the sovereignty of the member states over their own tax systems.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the council the adoption of a directive laying down rules against tax evasion practices directly affecting the functioning of the internal market. the council is to consult parliament before adopting the directive. the maltese parliament and the swedish parliament submitted reasoned opinions that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. in its report, the economic and monetary committee recommends that parliament approve the commission proposal with 91 amendments, taking into account the views of malta and sweden, and requests the commission to amend its proposal accordingly. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on rules against tax avoidance practices directly affecting the functioning of the internal market, as i agree with the main objective of multinational companies finally paying tax where they actually generate their profits. the aggressive tax optimization of multinational corporations has taken significant resources away from important areas such as health, education, and public services. this is an untenable situation and i agree with the rapporteur that in order to create a reliable single market, member states must harmonize their tax systems. european tax harmonisation is also a precondition for the creation of economic and monetary union. the report's comments were intended to make clearer and more effective the commission's proposal to limit tax avoidance by multinational companies by putting an end to the practice of multinationals conspiring to escape tax havens and to avoid paying tax on their profits. i also welcome the fact that the report has also clarified and harmonised patent legislation and strengthened the role of parliament.
in writing. ‒ according to an oecd study, the aggressive tax optimisation of multinational companies causes an annual budget deficit of usd 100 to 240 million worldwide. this represents 410% of the taxes paid by companies worldwide. this is particularly a sensitive revenue loss for those states where it is precisely this that reduces the resources available for investments to stimulate job creation, eradicate poverty and develop effective health care systems. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ the resolution contains a number of elements that can be supported. it points out that the emphasis on the war on terrorism has dangerously shifted the balance between the different powers of the state towards an expansion of the powers of governments to the detriment of parliaments and the judiciary. the use of state secrets is unprecedented, hindering public scrutiny of alleged human rights violations. the document is fundamentally correct in condemning the operation of secret cia prisons and the us's human rights-incompatible counter-terrorism methods. i do not agree, however, with the repeated emphasis on the extreme importance of transatlantic relations. however, as this case, which has been on the agenda for ten years, demands a full investigation and accountability, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the ppe group in parliament on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on the report of the united states senate on the use of torture by the cia. parliament voted the first one. as the draft resolution lacked the desired balance, i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the criticism in the motion for a resolution because i consider it unacceptable that the cia, with the cooperation of the authorities of certain member states, could have been involved in the illegal detention and torture of prisoners on the territory of the european union. the ep also stressed that the council, the commission and the member states concerned had not implemented or only partially implemented the proposals for measures and procedures put forward by parliament in this case. in my view, such methods will not make the fight against terrorism more effective, but they represent a serious and systematic violation of human rights and a burden on euro-atlantic political relations. i therefore expect that our present decision, as it stands, will lead the eu institutions and the member states concerned to examine the circumstances and to provide the european public and the european parliament with meaningful answers and measures.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on a commitment to democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, and respect for human dignity and international law, both at home and abroad. i supported the s&d group's position and proposal on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to highlight the eu's backwardness in space technologies and industry and to make suggestions for development goals and possible directions. it is important to note that the parts that call for the eu and nato to coordinate and deepen civil and military developments in this area are not a solution. the eu must be independent and seek to develop and use its own technology independently of the us and nato, precisely because of the potential for military use of space technology. space technology also offers the possibility of addressing the question of common external and internal security, the protection of the eu's external borders and the control of illegal migration at the point of origin in a way that is appropriate and acceptable to all member states. at present, 60% of eu space technology and, within it, information communication satellites for civil and military use use components and software from the usa, which raises the question of how to guarantee adequate data protection for eu citizens. the coordination and integration of existing eu and national space research agencies and research institutes into a single umbrella organisation will allow developments to be project-based and competitive with the space technology developments and programmes of competing states, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. i believe that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communication, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to carry out a comprehensive investigation into alleged irregularities and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. cooperation between tax authorities in the member states is more important than ever to combat tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. the global economic and financial crisis of recent years has brought the importance and validity of burden-sharing to the attention of the public. it is estimated that member states lose billions of euros in revenue due to corporate tax avoidance. companies take advantage of the complexity of tax rules and the lack of cooperation between member states to redistribute their profits and to minimise their tax liabilities. it is therefore essential to promote transparency and cooperation in the fight against aggressive tax planning and abusive tax practices. the importance of this has been highlighted by the panama papers scandal, which makes the creation of a commission of inquiry inevitable. the commission should also be able to verify whether the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of directive 2005/60/ec,
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these technologies. the union should work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, and address security challenges, global unrest and armed conflict, and migration, which require the development of these technologies. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november 2015, france, invoking article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union, requested the assistance and support of the european union. the report of the committee on foreign affairs, in particular, examines the potential of space-based capabilities and services in relation to the common security and defence policy, the fight against terrorist attacks and mass murder affecting all member states, the safeguarding of stability, the fight against security challenges, in particular those arising from terrorism, the more effective assessment and identification of flows and routes of illegal immigrants, and the determination of the place of embarkation for those from north africa. calls for improving access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and for ensuring europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report calling for the development of eu space research, instrument development and dual-use space-based capabilities. in formulating my opinion, i have taken into account the changes in the international security environment in europe and in the european union and its member states, the new types of challenges to which an effective response can only be given by a joint eu effort, along the same lines. i support the holistic approach of the report to the cfsp and csdp and the promotion of the dual use of european space capabilities, programmes and instruments, as is already the case for the galileo and copernicus programmes. i also agree that the material specifically highlights the interaction between the development of defence and civil space capabilities and the underpinning of technical and scientific progress in the member states. in general, i am convinced that without the development of its own space research and capabilities, the eu cannot have a meaningful global role in the future, and we must provide the european parliament with the appropriate political support.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. space policy is an essential aspect of the strategic autonomy that the eu needs to develop in order to preserve sensitive technological and industrial capabilities and the capacity for independent assessment. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space. in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space.
in writing. ‒ eu space activities are of paramount importance for innovation, economic growth and industrial competitiveness. satellite navigation, earth observation and satellite telecommunications services can make a vital contribution to the implementation of a wide range of union policies and bring significant benefits to all european citizens. galileo and the copernicus programme have a unique and innovative approach, and reliable and accurate positioning information from weather and earth observation data is of strategic importance. the union intends to spend more than eur 11 billion on infrastructure for the programmes over the period up to 2020. the report considers that in the future, business will be the main providers of space services, which will have a stimulating effect on the entrepreneurial sphere in the union, and supports the increased use of space data by both the public sector and the business community. space data and space services can play an important role in ensuring that europe is a leader in key technological directions such as the 'internet of things', 'smart cities', 'big data' and connected and autonomous vehicles.
in writing. ‒ the security environment within and outside the union is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, to which member states must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. the report therefore emphasises the importance of space-based devices and the further development of these capabilities. the union must work together to achieve an effective and coherent border management system, respond to challenges to our security, to unrest and armed conflict in our neighbourhood, and to migration, for which the development of these capabilities is essential. the report emphasises that the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space observation, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure europe's independence in critical space technologies and access to space.
in writing. ‒ the ppe, s&d, ecr, alde, verts/ale and efdd groups tabled a joint motion for a resolution on the introduction of space products on the market. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it identifies and proposes a number of aspects that could help to preserve europe's leading role in space technology and its civil and commercial exploitation. i agree with the call for the commission to develop a comprehensive strategy to this end, which will ensure that both copernicus and galileo and future programmes will have a high level of scientific and technical excellence and a continuous commercial viability, and thus the capacity to boost the european economy, with a focus on job creation. i consider it important that the report states that there is a need to improve the coherence between eu involvement in the space market and other eu policies, in particular the internal market, competition and energy policy. i also agree with the need expressed in the material to make future developments more consumer-oriented, while taking into account the interests of service providers.
in writing. ‒ eu space activities are of crucial importance for scientific and technological progress, innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, social cohesion, the creation of skilled jobs and new businesses, and the creation of business opportunities in both purchasing and sales markets. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the political crisis in venezuela is deepening, which is why i have adopted the parliament's draft resolution. we need to monitor the socioeconomic situation in venezuela with increased attention, which is a cause of growing political uncertainty. we must assure the suffering people of our support and condemn the political elite who imprison their own opposition and those who criticize the system. the motion for a resolution provides a good basis for this. we must call on both sides to continue the dialogue, to the importance of compromise agreements and to the urgent resolution of the socio-economic problems of the country. the government must guarantee the right to freedom of expression and the full freedom of arbitrarily detained political prisoners. the eu should strongly advocate the release of political prisoners and arbitrarily detained persons, in line with the many un agencies and international organisations and the law on amnesty and national reconciliation.
in writing. ‒ the ppe, verts/ale, ecr, efdd, gue/ngl, alde and s&d groups have tabled a motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela. among them, the ppe, ecr, alde and s&d groups reached an agreement and worked out a joint compromise proposal. i voted in favour of the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution as it reflects a compromise acceptable to me as well as to the party factions in the political opposition to the complex socio-political crisis in venezuela. in my view, the european union and the european parliament cannot remain silent in a situation where, in the political impasse following the venezuelan elections, there are massive violations of human rights, political prisoners are being imprisoned and the economic and social crisis in the country is at its lowest point. i therefore support the active involvement of the high representative for foreign affairs in the measures proposed in the parliament's decision to promote political consolidation and to include the issue on the agenda of the next european council meeting following the g7 resolution. in the short term, i expect this european parliament's decision to continue to contribute to the dialogue between the venezuelan government and the political opposition, and in this context to encourage the implementation of the most urgent measures to restore democratic relations, put an end to violations, release political prisoners and improve the provision of services to the population.
in writing. ‒ the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers are not properly respected in venezuela. there are about 2,000 people in prison, under house arrest or on probation for political reasons, including important political leaders. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ under regulation (eu) no 528/2012, the commission was required to adopt delegated acts setting out scientific criteria for endocrine-disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products by 13 december 2013 at the latest. the commission established the joint research centre for this task, whose expert group adopted a report on 28 march 2013 on the identification and characterisation of endocrine disruptors. the european court of justice has ruled that regulation (eu) no 528/2012 does not contain any provision requiring the commission to carry out an impact assessment of the scientific risk-based criteria and that even if the commission considered such an impact assessment to be necessary, this did not exempt it from complying with the deadline set by the regulation. the court therefore held in its judgment that the commission had a clear, precise and unconditional obligation to adopt delegated acts to define the above-mentioned scientific criteria by 13 december 2013 at the latest, as provided for in the regulation. since the commission has failed to fulfil its obligations under the treaties, despite its role as guardian of the treaties vis-à-vis the member states, i have therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling on the commission to remedy its intentional failure immediately.
in writing. ‒ the commission's early adoption of the relevant legislative task is essential for effective action against endocrine disruptors and for the protection of human health and the environment. in its judgment in the case, the european court of justice clearly found that the european commission had failed to fulfil its legislative obligation in relation to the biocidal products regulation it was therefore justified to call on the european parliament to respect its obligations under union law by means of a decision. the risk-based scientific criteria should be established in an objective manner, on the basis of scientific data, and independently of any other considerations, in particular economic ones. the draft joint resolution is worded in a concise and factual manner and in the light of the above circumstances, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission's early adoption of the relevant legislative task is essential for effective action against endocrine disruptors and for the protection of human health and the environment. in its judgment in the case, the european court of justice clearly found that the european commission had failed to fulfil its legislative obligation in relation to the biocidal products regulation it was therefore justified to call on the european parliament to respect its obligations under union law by means of a decision. the risk-based scientific criteria should be established in an objective manner, on the basis of scientific data on the endocrine system, and independently of any other considerations, in particular economic considerations. the wording of the draft joint resolution is concise and factual and takes account of the above circumstances, and i therefore voted in favour of it in agreement with the group of the european people's party.
in writing. other it is essential for the commission to complete the legislative task as soon as possible in order to combat edcs effectively and to protect human health and the environment. in its judgment in the case, the european court of justice clearly found that the european commission had failed to fulfil its legislative obligation in relation to the biocidal products regulation it was therefore justified to call on the european parliament to respect its obligations under union law by means of a decision. the risk-based scientific criteria should be established in an objective manner, on the basis of scientific data on the endocrine system, and independently of any other considerations, in particular economic considerations. the wording of the draft joint resolution is concise and factual and takes account of the above circumstances, and i therefore voted in favour of it in agreement with the group of the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission's early adoption of the relevant legislative task is essential for effective action against endocrine disruptors and for the protection of human health and the environment. in its judgment in the case, the european court of justice clearly found that the european commission had failed to fulfil its legislative obligation in relation to the biocidal products regulation it was therefore justified to call on the european parliament to respect its obligations under union law by means of a decision. the risk-based scientific criteria should be established in an objective manner, on the basis of scientific data on the endocrine system, and independently of any other considerations, in particular economic considerations. the wording of the draft joint resolution is concise and factual and takes account of the above circumstances, and i therefore voted in favour of it in agreement with the group of the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission's early adoption of the relevant legislative task is essential for effective action against endocrine disruptors and for the protection of human health and the environment. in its judgment in the case, the european court of justice clearly found that the european commission had failed to fulfil its legislative obligation in relation to the biocidal products regulation it was therefore justified to call on the european parliament to respect its obligations under union law by means of a decision. the risk-based scientific criteria should be established in an objective manner, on the basis of scientific data on the endocrine system, and independently of any other considerations, in particular economic considerations. the wording of the draft joint resolution is concise and factual and takes account of the above circumstances, and i therefore voted in favour of it in agreement with the group of the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission's early adoption of the relevant legislative task is essential for effective action against endocrine disruptors and for the protection of human health and the environment. in its judgment in the case, the european court of justice clearly found that the european commission had failed to fulfil its legislative obligation in relation to the biocidal products regulation it was therefore justified to call on the european parliament to respect its obligations under union law by means of a decision. the risk-based scientific criteria should be established in an objective manner, on the basis of scientific data on the endocrine system, and independently of any other considerations, in particular economic considerations. the draft joint resolution is drafted in a concise and factual manner and takes account of the above circumstances.
in writing. ‒ the commission's early adoption of the relevant legislative task is essential for effective action against endocrine disruptors and for the protection of human health and the environment. in its judgment in the case, the european court of justice clearly found that the european commission had failed to fulfil its legislative obligation in relation to the biocidal products regulation it was therefore justified to call on the european parliament to respect its obligations under union law by means of a decision. the risk-based scientific criteria should be established in an objective manner, on the basis of scientific data on the endocrine system, and independently of any other considerations, in particular economic considerations. the wording of the draft joint resolution is concise and factual and takes account of the above circumstances, and i therefore voted in favour of it in agreement with the group of the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission's early adoption of the relevant legislative task is essential for effective action against endocrine disruptors and for the protection of human health and the environment. in its judgment in the case, the european court of justice clearly found that the european commission had failed to fulfil its legislative obligation in relation to the biocidal products regulation it was therefore justified to call on the european parliament to respect its obligations under union law by means of a decision. the risk-based scientific criteria should be established in an objective manner, on the basis of scientific data on the endocrine system, and independently of any other considerations, in particular economic considerations. the wording of the draft joint resolution is concise and factual and takes account of the above circumstances, and i therefore voted in favour of it in agreement with the group of the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ judgment of the general court of the european union of 16 december 2015 in case t-521/14 sweden v commission. in its judgment, the general court held that the commission had a clear, precise and unconditional obligation under regulation (eu) no 528/2012 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products to adopt delegated acts setting out scientific criteria for endocrine disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products by 13 december 2013 at the latest. the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are in breach of the principle of proportionality. the ep has therefore tabled a joint motion for a resolution with the efn, gue/ngl, efdd, alde, s&d and verts/ale, and the ppe and ecr groups. among them, s&d, gue/ngl, efdd and alde reached an agreement and drafted a joint compromise motion condemning the commission and calling for the immediate replacement of the omission, which was joined by the ppe and the verts/ale group. i voted in favor of the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ scientific criteria are needed for the detection and management of endocrine disruptors. the european commission should have made these criteria public by the end of 2013, and i voted in favour of the joint resolution which calls for the presentation of this set of criteria as soon as possible and points out that, despite the repeated requests of the ep, no substantive action has been taken so far. given the importance of the issue for human health, it is important to emphasise that endocrine disruptors present clearly irreversible health risks even without criteria. but neither is a witch hunt, so we need a scientific judgment system to decide whether a drug is marketable. the issue has not only been addressed by the european parliament, but also by the world health organisation, which describes endocrine disruptors as a global threat, causing irreversible diseases such as sterility in some of the people and animals affected. i agree with the strong statement in the resolution that the european commission must come forward with the relevant delegated acts in a short time.
in writing. ‒ the unep/who report identified endocrine disruptors as a global threat, citing, among other things, the high incidence and growing trend of human endocrine disruption. new evidence is available that exposure to endocrine disruptors leads to reproductive disorders (infertility, cancer, birth defects) and the effects of these chemicals on thyroid function, brain function, obesity and metabolism, and on insulin and glucose homeostasis. i have followed the s&d group's position with interest.
in writing. ‒ on 9 february 2009, the company syngenta submitted to the competent authority of germany an application to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21 maize. the application covers genetically modified varieties other than cultivation. these contain proteins that can cause cancer in the human body. our fundamental objection is that the authorisation mechanism for genetically modified food and feed is not democratic. the european commission regularly issues the necessary permits, but it is not supported by the majority of member states or the majority of eu citizens. in 2014, president juncker himself promised to put an end to this anti-democratic decision-making mechanism. on these grounds, i supported the objection against the commission implementing regulation.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. the bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 maize resulting from the combination of the single lines is resistant to the active substances glufosinate-ammonium and glyphosate herbicides and to a number of insect pests of the orders lepidoptera and coleoptera. the cultivation of the gmo maize concerned may lead to an increased use of plant protection products containing such active substances, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in the opinion of domestic experts, the safety studies on the product are not satisfactory. longer-term feeding trials should have been carried out to establish that these products do not pose a risk to human or animal health. in line with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, we do not support the authorisation of gm products, and therefore i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the union market of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21.
in writing. the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. the bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 maize resulting from the combination of the single lines is resistant to the active substances glufosinate-ammonium and glyphosate herbicides and to a number of insect pests of the orders lepidoptera and coleoptera. the cultivation of the gmo maize concerned may lead to an increased use of plant protection products containing such active substances, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in the opinion of domestic experts, the safety studies on the product are not satisfactory. longer-term feeding trials should have been carried out to establish that these products do not pose a risk to human or animal health. in line with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, we do not support the authorisation of gm products, and therefore i voted in favour of the parliamentary objection to the placing on the union market of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. the bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 maize resulting from the combination of the single lines is resistant to the active substances glufosinate-ammonium and glyphosate herbicides and to a number of insect pests of the orders lepidoptera and coleoptera. the cultivation of the gmo maize concerned may lead to an increased use of plant protection products containing such active substances, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in the opinion of domestic experts, the safety studies on the product are not satisfactory. longer-term feeding trials should have been carried out to establish that these products do not pose a risk to human or animal health. in line with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, we do not support the authorisation of gm products, and therefore i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the union market of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. the bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 maize resulting from the combination of the single lines is resistant to the active substances glufosinate-ammonium and glyphosate herbicides and to a number of insect pests of the orders lepidoptera and coleoptera. the cultivation of the gmo maize concerned may lead to an increased use of plant protection products containing such active substances, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in the opinion of domestic experts, the safety studies on the product are not satisfactory. longer-term feeding trials should have been carried out to establish that these products do not pose a risk to human or animal health. in line with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, we do not support the authorisation of gm products, and therefore i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the union market of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. the combination of the single lines bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 corn is resistant to glufosinate- ammonium and glyphosate active herbicides and to a number of insect pests of the orders lepidoptera and coleoptera. the cultivation of the gmo maize concerned may lead to an increased use of plant protection products containing such active substances, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in the opinion of domestic experts, the safety studies on the product are not satisfactory. longer-term feeding trials should have been carried out to establish that these products do not pose a risk to human or animal health. in accordance with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, we do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. the bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 maize resulting from the combination of the single lines is resistant to the active substances glufosinate-ammonium and glyphosate herbicides and to a number of insect pests of the orders lepidoptera and coleoptera. the cultivation of the gmo maize concerned may lead to an increased use of plant protection products containing such active substances, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in the opinion of domestic experts, the safety studies on the product are not satisfactory. longer-term feeding trials should have been carried out to establish that these products do not pose a risk to human or animal health. in line with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, we do not support the authorisation of gm products, and therefore i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the union market of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. the bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 maize resulting from the combination of the single lines is resistant to the active substances glufosinate-ammonium and glyphosate herbicides and to a number of insect pests of the orders lepidoptera and coleoptera. the cultivation of the gmo maize concerned may lead to an increased use of plant protection products containing such active substances, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in the opinion of domestic experts, the safety studies on the product are not satisfactory. longer-term feeding trials should have been carried out to establish that these products do not pose a risk to human or animal health. in line with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, we do not support the authorisation of gm products, and therefore i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the union market of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21.
in writing. ‒ judgment of the general court of the european union of 16 december 2015 in case t-521/14 sweden v commission. in its judgment, the general court held that the commission had a clear, precise and unconditional obligation under regulation (eu) no 528/2012 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products to adopt delegated acts setting out scientific criteria for endocrine disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products by 13 december 2013 at the latest. the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are in breach of the principle of proportionality. the ep has therefore tabled a joint motion for a resolution with the efn, gue/ngl, efdd, alde, s&d and verts/ale, and the ppe and ecr groups. among them, s&d, gue/ngl, efdd and alde reached an agreement and drafted a joint compromise motion condemning the commission and calling for the immediate replacement of the omission, which was joined by the ppe and the verts/ale group. i voted in favor of the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. the bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 maize resulting from the combination of the single lines is resistant to the active substances glufosinate-ammonium and glyphosate herbicides and to a number of insect pests of the orders lepidoptera and coleoptera. the cultivation of the gmo maize concerned may lead to an increased use of plant protection products containing such active substances, which may subsequently increase the residues in the crop. in 2015, the who classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen'. high doses also increase the incidence of resistant yeast populations. in the opinion of domestic experts, the safety studies on the product are not satisfactory. longer-term feeding trials should have been carried out to establish that these products do not pose a risk to human or animal health. in line with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, we do not support the authorisation of gm products, and therefore i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the union market of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution rejecting the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21 and genetically modified maize combining two or three of the genetic events bt11, mir162, mir604 and ga21. this motion for a resolution was necessary because on 9 february 2009 syngenta france s.a.s. submitted to the competent authority of germany an application for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from the maize referred to above. as described in the application, the maize contains proteins to protect against certain lepidoptera or coleoptera pests, which provide resistance to herbicides containing glufosinate-ammonium or glyphosate. however, these substances have been classified as 'probably carcinogenic' by the international agency for research on cancer, the who cancer agency. i believe that the current approval system for genetically modified food and feed is not working properly and that it needs to be corrected.
in writing. ‒ on 9 february 2009, syngenta france s.a.s. submitted to the competent authority of germany an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21 maize. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. we cannot support the authorisation of gmos that can cross-breed with wild related species and spread in certain areas, even if they do not live in hungary but in southern europe. we believe that although there is little chance of viable pollen and seeds entering the environment from cut flowers, this route cannot be completely ruled out. however, the tolerance of sulphonylurea herbicides, if released, may significantly increase the survival and reproduction of gm carnation in the natural environment, to the detriment of wild related species. nor can the possibility of horizontal gene transfer between the gm hornwort and bacteria in the environment be completely excluded. in accordance with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the eu market of genetically modified nails.
in writing. the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. we cannot support the authorisation of gmos that can cross-breed with wild related species and spread in certain areas, even if they do not live in hungary but in southern europe. we believe that although there is little chance of viable pollen and seeds entering the environment from cut flowers, this route cannot be completely ruled out. however, the tolerance of sulphonylurea herbicides, if released, may significantly increase the survival and reproduction of gm carnation in the natural environment, to the detriment of wild related species. nor can the possibility of horizontal gene transfer between the gm hornwort and bacteria in the environment be completely excluded. in accordance with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the eu market of genetically modified nails.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. we cannot support the authorisation of gmos that can cross-breed with wild related species and spread in certain areas, even if they do not live in hungary but in southern europe. we believe that although there is little chance of viable pollen and seeds entering the environment from cut flowers, this route cannot be completely ruled out. however, the tolerance of sulphonylurea herbicides, if released, may significantly increase the survival and reproduction of gm carnation in the natural environment, to the detriment of wild related species. nor can the possibility of horizontal gene transfer between the gm hornwort and bacteria in the environment be completely excluded. in accordance with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the eu market of genetically modified nails.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. we cannot support the authorisation of gmos that can cross-breed with wild related species and spread in certain areas, even if they do not live in hungary but in southern europe. we believe that although there is little chance of viable pollen and seeds entering the environment from cut flowers, this route cannot be completely ruled out. however, the tolerance of sulphonylurea herbicides, if released, may significantly increase the survival and reproduction of gm carnation in the natural environment, to the detriment of wild related species. nor can the possibility of horizontal gene transfer between the gm hornwort and bacteria in the environment be completely excluded. in accordance with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the eu market of genetically modified nails.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. we cannot support the authorisation of gmos that can cross-breed with wild related species and spread in certain areas, even if they are not in hungary but in southern europe. we believe that although there is little chance of viable pollen and seeds entering the environment from cut flowers, this route cannot be completely ruled out. however, the tolerance of sulphonylurea herbicides, if released, may significantly increase the survival and reproduction of gm carnation in the natural environment, to the detriment of wild related species. nor can the possibility of horizontal gene transfer between the gm hornwort and bacteria in the environment be completely excluded. in accordance with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, i supported the parliament's objection to the placing on the eu market of genetically modified nails.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. we cannot support the authorisation of gmos that can cross-breed with wild related species and spread in certain areas, even if they do not live in hungary but in southern europe. we believe that although there is little chance of viable pollen and seeds entering the environment from cut flowers, this route cannot be completely ruled out. however, the tolerance of sulphonylurea herbicides, if released, may significantly increase the survival and reproduction of gm carnation in the natural environment, to the detriment of wild related species. nor can the possibility of horizontal gene transfer between the gm hornwort and bacteria in the environment be completely excluded. in accordance with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the eu market of genetically modified nails.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. we cannot support the authorisation of gmos that can cross-breed with wild related species and spread in certain areas, even if they do not live in hungary but in southern europe. we believe that although there is little chance of viable pollen and seeds entering the environment from cut flowers, this route cannot be completely ruled out. however, the tolerance of sulphonylurea herbicides, if released, may significantly increase the survival and reproduction of gm carnation in the natural environment, to the detriment of wild related species. nor can the possibility of horizontal gene transfer between the gm hornwort and bacteria in the environment be completely excluded. in accordance with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the eu market of genetically modified nails.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a draft resolution. recommends that parliament take the view that the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4) does not comply with the health and environmental objectives of directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in that directive, and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. we cannot support the authorisation of gmos that can cross-breed with wild related species and spread in certain areas, even if they do not live in hungary but in southern europe. we believe that although there is little chance of viable pollen and seeds entering the environment from cut flowers, this route cannot be completely ruled out. however, the tolerance of sulphonylurea herbicides, if released, may significantly increase the survival and reproduction of gm carnation in the natural environment, to the detriment of wild related species. nor can the possibility of horizontal gene transfer between the gm hornwort and bacteria in the environment be completely excluded. in accordance with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the placing on the eu market of genetically modified nails.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4). the proposal is supported by the fact that in march 2013 the company suntory holdings limited of osaka, japan notified the competent authority of the netherlands of the placing on the market of the genetically modified carnation. the authorisation covers the import, distribution and retail of cut flowers with cloves for ornamental use only. however, efsa clarifies that although the efsa gmo panel is aware that some population groups consume clove as a meal, as a snack, it has not assessed the possible consequences of the deliberate consumption of gm clove by humans or animals. efsa considers that cut stems with vegetative shoots can be propagated by rooting or micro-capping and can be released into the environment (e.g. in gardens) and that the same risk exists for pollen, as the modified carnation is also transmitted to wild species. the resolution therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its implementing regulation.
in writing. ‒ in march 2013, the company suntory holdings limited of osaka, japan, notified the competent authority of the netherlands (c/nl/13/01) of the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4). i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
the following point is attached to the statements by the council and the commission on improving the exchange of data and the use of european information systems and databases in the fight against serious transnational crime and terrorism (2016/2760 ((rsp)).
i'm sorry to inform you that, due to the suspension of the sitting, i can't take any more questions, but i would like to give everyone a chance to speak in the 'catch the eye' procedure.
madam president, i'm glad that commissioner avramopoulos said the key phrase: there is no freedom without security. because the paris and brussels attacks, the fact that some of the attackers were already registered as terrorist suspects in europe, but they were able to travel to the islamic state without any problems, and then return to europe as migrants, highlighted the lack of information sharing. the eu counter-terrorism coordinator said that the biggest challenge at the moment is that data is not being uploaded and exchanged in the available systems, so cooperation in the field of information transfer is key, and that member states should make better use of and develop existing european systems. the establishment of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol is a good initiative. two days ago, the hungarian parliament approved the creation of the terrorist information and crime analysis center, whose task is to compile a comprehensive picture of the country's terrorist threat or other serious criminal threat. it would be essential to set up similar centres and to work closely together across europe.
i would ask my fellow members to speak a little slower. the lamp on my desk is always on, which shows that the interpreters can't translate, they speak so fast in their speeches. i now give the floor to mr jakovčić, and i ask him to speak in a way that is easily interpreted.
obviously, it was a poetic question and it doesn't require an answer. i see you're cleaning up the room. we will continue this debate, and after the 'catch the eye' procedure, i will now give the floor to commissioner avramopoulos.
in writing. i welcome the fact that, under this agenda item, the representative of the commission and the council has finally focused on what governments have long needed to do: the key to success in tackling terrorism and other transnational crimes is to identify and prevent potential perpetrators, regardless of national borders, but this requires improving the exchange of information and data. instead, most governments have chosen the path of mass measures of intimidation, restricting civil rights, disrupting the normal lives of people, although this has not proved to be an effective method in practice. i consider this to be the indiscriminate use of airports and other travel restrictions, the uncontrolled collection and use of personal data, the overreaching of the pnr system. but above all, it is the selfish domestically motivated actions of some european governments whose sole purpose is to keep their own populations in line by restricting their democratic rights and by fomenting xenophobia. this is particularly true of the hungarian prime minister, viktor orbán, and the right-wing polish government that followed him. this is evidenced by the constitutional amendment containing anti-democratic, restrictive legislation adopted by the hungarian parliament under the pretext of 'fighting terrorism', and the introduction of a similar package of laws planned by the polish government. better exchange of criminal data and information, closer professional cooperation, and more effective counter-terrorism and law enforcement cannot be achieved at european level until the eu is able to put its resilient members at the service of this important cause.
it's a two-card draw. madam representative, you have indeed put forward some very strong messages correctly. i agree with that completely, and i see that others in this room are also sending very strong messages, not only to the commission, but to turkey. but there is one european member state, hungary, whose prime minister, viktor orbán, has consistently called mr erdogan and mr putin an example to follow, and has confirmed this in several statements. when will the moment come, i ask, when your group will have a say in this matter?
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, as i stated before, the commission will continue to work to ensure that any future solution on whaling within the international whaling commission leads to a better overall conservation of whales worldwide and ultimately to a sizable reduction in the number of whales being killed under whatever whaling regime, commercial or scientific. the eu and japan are close allies and major international partners. the eu and japan are currently negotiating a strategic partnership and a free trade agreement. in these frameworks, the eu is pushing for the inclusion of a robust trade and sustainable development chapter in the fta and a robust article on the environment in the spa, but whaling as such is not part of the ongoing negotiations on these agreements between the eu and japan. our differences of approach on particular issues of whaling should not prevent us from strengthening our economic and political cooperation in other areas. many thanks for your comments and this discussion.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i thank the honourable members for all their inputs, which are extremely important for the coming months. this is something that we all share, namely that we do not approve of the current whaling activities of japan. i continue to be very concerned that japan has also failed to present sufficient evidence to justify their whaling activities. we are looking ahead now to the meetings that are going to be held soon on this issue. the issue of scientific whaling is discussed at the meeting of the scientific committee, which just started in bled. we have constantly recognised and supported the independence of that committee and we will keep to that position. we conveyed our serious concerns in view of the expert panel findings in 2015 and our position has not changed in that respect. the only way we can work on this is an effective conservation and management regime through joint efforts and by initiatives that promote mutual trust and cooperation. we stand really ready to engage with all partners at the iwc66, while reiterating the importance of respecting international obligations and our opposition to the conduct of so-called scientific whaling outside iwc control. as you know, we have made this démarche earlier. we will ensure that we will continue to take an active position in this debate against the policy that we all abhor and therefore we will also ensure that the european union and its member states are well prepared for the next meeting of the iwc in october.
in writing. – on 31st march 2014 the un’s international court of justice – in its legally-binding decision – ruled that japan’s state-subsidised whale-hunting in the southern ocean did not fall within the scope of scientific research and therefore was considered illegal. in spite of the ruling, japan has recently resumed whaling, exploiting a loophole that allows for a limited amount of hunting for scientific purposes. even though there has been a moratorium on commercial whaling since 1982, there is still supply of whale meat in japan due to imports and the sale of the meat that was hunted on scientific missions. however, the hunting of whales could not be justified by the alleged strong cultural attachment to whale meat, either – which was popular in the post-war period since it was a cheap source of protein – as, according to research conducted by greenpeace, whale meat consumption in japan amounted to about 30 grams per person on average in 2015 (whereas the stockpile of unsold frozen whale meat totalled up to 5 900 tons in 2011). following the suggestion of greenpeace, activism from within japan should be combined with international pressure. therefore, i urge the eu and the member states to take action and step up against this out-dated and illegal practice.
madam president, please. the european railway supply sector covers a wide range of industries, including, in addition to locomotives and wagons, the entire railway infrastructure, electricity supply, signalling and safety equipment. it has a key role to play in the community task and indirectly links one million jobs to the railway sector as a whole. we really need to keep this sector competitive, but when we talk about global competition, we think primarily about how it will have opportunities outside the eu market, in the global market. in fact, the task is much more difficult because the eu market is part of the global market and the opportunities should be preserved here. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese exporting producers were not in a position to compete with the union producers. hungary has also signed a contract with a chinese investor for the hungarian part of the budapest-belgrade railway worth eur 1,5 billion. this is indeed a large amount and it is understandable that it is not financed by the budget, but it has not been possible to disclose the hungarian or eu supplies and analysts believe that china will actually support its own industry with this loan. in this situation, it's not a rosy decision.
madam president, please. in january, the itre committee's resolution on this subject summarised very well the challenges and proposed solutions that could contribute to the further development of the european rail supply industry and to maintaining its share of the world market. but if we want to maintain our position in the near future, it is important to take clear steps that focus not only on the current market situation, but also on the prospects and challenges for the future. it is unacceptable that we should also put more emphasis on research and education. furthermore, it is important to note that many smes in the rail supply industry operate in a business environment that is unfavourable and needs to be improved, which can be achieved by using the european small business package and epsi, but requires the assistance of the commission. simplify procedures and reduce the financial and administrative burden on smes so that they can finally focus on manufacturing.
in writing. ‒ the proposal streamlines the procedures currently used between member states to verify the authenticity of certain authentic instruments, while complementing existing sectoral eu legislation by abolishing the requirement of double-checking and simplifying the use of copies and translations. it draws on existing sectoral union law and relevant international legal sources, while strengthening trust in authentic instruments issued in other member states. however, the proposal does not amend but complements existing sectoral union law, which contains provisions on supervision, or other formalities, or administrative cooperation. it also provides for the simplification of other formalities relating to the acceptance of authentic instruments in other member states, namely certified copies and certified translations. the enf group proposed that the european parliament reject the council's position adopted at first reading. i do not consider the refusal to be justified, as this regulation brings about considerable ease in everyday life and cost reduction for hungarians who work or study abroad. the rejection is a resolution against the principle of free movement within the union, which would harm the interests of the large number of hungarians who are hopefully temporarily finding their fortunes in the west. the proposal also simplifies legal procedures, as hungarian citizens can thus assert their interests in the field of private international law more easily and cost-effectively. i therefore voted against the rejection.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the commission proposed to the parliament and the council the adoption of a regulation on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the presentation of certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012. the proposal aims to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal acceptance of certain public documents within the european union. it does not apply to the recognition of the content of authentic instruments, in particular in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in the field of family law. parliament adopted its position on the proposal at first reading back in 2013. however, the romanian senate submitted a reasoned opinion that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. following interinstitutional negotiations, a compromise text was agreed between the co-legislators and the commission, as reflected in the council's position adopted at first reading. the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs for second reading proposes that parliament should agree with the council's position at first reading and that the legislative act should be adopted in accordance with the council's position. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this legislative act is to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the official acceptance of certain public documents within the european union. it does not apply to the recognition of the content of authentic instruments, in particular in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in the field of family law. following interinstitutional negotiations, a compromise text was agreed between the co-legislators and the commission. it thus covers public documents relating to marital status and certain other documents frequently requested by citizens, such as residence, nationality and criminal records. for these authentic instruments, the regulation provides for exemption from the double-certification and apostille formalities which are traditionally required for cross-border authentic instruments. it also provides for simplified acceptance arrangements for certified copies and certified translations. the current scope does not cover diplomas and certificates of qualification, documents proving disability and some documents relevant to businesses, but the regulation contains revision clauses that envisage the future extension of the scope of administrative simplifications as this new way of working becomes the norm in national authorities. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this legislative act is to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the official acceptance of certain public documents within the european union. it does not apply to the recognition of the content of authentic instruments, in particular in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in the field of family law. the mobility of eu citizens is a reality: some 12 million of them study, work or live in a member state other than their country of nationality. today, when union citizens and businesses exercise their rights of free movement or internal market freedoms, they may encounter administrative complications when submitting public documents to the authorities of other member states, for example as a result of cross-border mobility. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ the general court of the european union has requested the european parliament and the council to adopt a draft regulation conferring on the court of justice jurisdiction to give preliminary rulings in disputes between the union and its servants. in its report, the committee on legal affairs recommends that parliament approve the text proposed by the court of first instance, subject to certain technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposal. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ in a union governed by the rule of law, it is necessary to ensure that procedural rights and obligations are defined, established and enforced in a proper manner at all times. citizens can expect a high level of transparency, efficiency, rapid implementation and responsiveness from the union's institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. citizens also have the right to adequate information on the possible follow-up to their case. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution of 15 january 2013, parliament called for the adoption of a regulation on an open, efficient and independent european union administration. the resolution was adopted by 572 votes in favour, 16 against and 12 abstentions, but the parliament's request was not followed up by a proposal from the commission. the committee on legal affairs has now proposed in its report the text of such a regulation and proposes to invite the commission to examine this proposal and to submit a legislative proposal to be included in its work programme for 2017. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ improving the competitiveness of the european rail industry requires a european training and education strategy that brings together rail supply companies, research institutes and social partners to jointly explore the skills needed for a sustainable and innovative rail supply industry. in this context, i believe that a feasibility study should be launched on the possible creation of a european railway sectoral training council. it is necessary to urge member states and/or regional bodies concerned to develop a framework for the provision of continuing training, in the form of a personal right to training, which ensures that the skilled workforce keeps pace with the growing needs of the sector and adapts to new market conditions, or is transferable to another industrial sector in the event of redundancy. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that the european rail supply sector is of enormous importance for european industrial growth, job creation and innovation. the european rail supply sector is of strategic importance for the rebirth of european industry, and it needs to maintain its global leadership. it includes many smes and leading companies in the sector and employs 400 000 people. their role is crucial to the revival of the railway industry. it is important to ensure that smes have access to finance, as this is one of the main challenges they face. the cosme programme and the structural funds can help facilitate access to finance, including in the form of guarantees and equity instruments. at the same time, it would be worthwhile to find alternative sources of funding, such as the sme instrument of the horizon 2020 strategy. the commission should support the increased use of eu financial instruments and resources available to smes, and we should find a way to make smes more dependent on one company, as it is clear that they are reluctant to expand due to a lack of resources and the increased risks of cross-border activity. to achieve this, we need to create appropriate synergies between funding sources alongside existing support programmes for the internationalisation of smes.
in writing. ‒ the european railway supply industry employs 400 000 people and accounts for 46% of the global railway supply industry. the entire railway sector, including operators and infrastructure, provides 1 million direct and 1.2 million indirect jobs in the european union. the sector is key to european industrial growth, job creation and innovation, and its development will contribute significantly to the achievement of the 20% reindustrialisation target. rail contributes significantly to climate change mitigation and to tackling other megatrends such as urbanisation and demographic change. in order to meet the union's 2030 climate and energy and decarbonisation objectives, a shift towards rail and other sustainable, energy-efficient, electrified modes of transport is necessary. the global competitiveness of the eu railway supply market is currently good, but in order to maintain this position, europe needs to put more emphasis on education and research. it is also particularly important to take into account the significant number of smes in the industry. these undertakings face significant financial and administrative burdens which are not borne by their competitors in third countries. particular attention should be paid to their support, in which the european small business package or even the efsi could play a significant role.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on industry, research and energy shows that the european rail supply sector employs 400 000 people, devotes 2.7% of its annual turnover to research and development and covers 46% of the world market. the total rail sector is responsible for 1 million direct and 1.2 million indirect jobs in the european union, indicating its importance for european industrial growth, job creation and innovation and its contribution to the 20% re-industrialisation target. the railway also makes a significant contribution to climate change mitigation and to tackling other megatrends such as urbanisation and demographic change. the objective of decarbonising transport clearly requires a shift towards rail and other sustainable, energy-efficient, electrified modes of transport. in this context, the report calls for action at union level to maintain the international competitiveness and global leadership of the european rail supply sector, to reduce unfair competition in the rail supply sector and to ensure a level playing field in global competition and mutual market access. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. we will not be disputing the need for a truly joint european action. in fact, i agree with you immensely that education, education, has a lot to do with this whole issue. that is why i ask: when will the moment come for you, the european people's party, to speak out about the infinitely disgusting propaganda that the orbán government, the hungarian government, is making, and to blame all terrorism on migration?
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first thank you, honourable members of the european parliament, for that interesting and very constructive debate. it was good to feel your unanimous support for the communication, almost all elements of the communication, and it was good to feel your support for the security policy measures. but i would like to emphasise now my particular happiness about your support for prevention, because education is the most efficient area and platform in prevention. we can educate good practices, good examples for peaceful coexistence just as mr jakovčić mentioned. we can show our power and the communities’ power and we can concentrate on the local specialties in education as well, because i think the local level is decisive in prevention. that is why we support role models. that is why we support ngos and local projects and that is why we support reintegration and integration projects in prisons, for instance. we have very good plans for developing new programmes in education, in vocational education, in prisons and outside the prisons, in local communities, in schools and beyond schools, in sports clubs, youth centres and all other platforms where young people live and where they socialise. so thank you for your support and i rely on you in our further work and i hope that we will be successful in tackling radicalisation in europe.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you very much and thank you honourable members for a very constructive an interesting debate. let me just repeat that i am grateful for the parliament’s and support and for your contribution. i think we share the same objectives in our common fight against radicalisation and violent extremism. we must live up to the expectations of our citizens to improve their safety. fighting terrorism, preventing radicalisation and increasing the resilience of our societies requires a long-term approach, strong commitment and a sustained effort from the european union and its member states. so it is something that we have to do every day. it is work in progress, but we have no time to lose because our enemies are very quickly, if we do not watch out, in front of us. that means we have to be innovative. i have heard many contributions on the different levels of the debate both in the analysis and in the prescriptions. in the analysis, most of you have mentioned both social as well as religious and criminal sources for this process of a radicalisation, and i think you are right. it is a multi-faceted problem of which you have different characteristics and we have to make sure that we have tailor-made prevention and repressive measures to deal with this very complex issue. we cannot wait. the paper is always very patient but we need to act, and i feel very much the support in this parliament for these actions taken by the council and others. we simply cannot allow those who want to hurt our system or our way of living to win. in the end, democratic societies will always win against terror and extremists. it is, in the end, believing in your values and defending them. what terrorists want is, in the end, to instil fear by violence, and our vulnerability to that fear is the determining factor, and i think that is something that we have to realise every day we are dealing with this issue. with every step we take, every measure we adopt, it is important that we strike the right balance between security on the one hand and protecting our freedoms and the rule of law on the other. that is sometimes a precarious balance, but i think we have kept our values straight, including the rule of law, while being effective in the struggle against radicalisation. we must be strong and continue to repeat that same message over and over again. our basic freedoms will not be compromised by terrorism nor by individuals with guns. the council is determined to reach tangible results in the coming weeks and months.
in writing. it is estimated that 4,000 trained fighters radicalized in the middle east are currently in europe. and the news over the last few days is that the number is growing. this means that the threat of european citizens becoming victims of terrorist attacks and acts of violence is increasing day by day. and the trigger is radicalization, especially among second- and third-generation immigrant youth. we must act decisively against this phenomenon. i welcome the commission communication on this subject, which identifies seven specific areas where joint eu action can reduce radicalisation. i believe that only a comprehensive strategy can effectively combat this phenomenon. the most important thing to do is to identify and remove radicalized individuals from their communities so that they cannot spread their murderous ideas and send them back to their countries of origin. this requires an appropriate exchange of information at union level. on the other hand, prevention of radicalisation is necessary, for example in the fields of education and strengthening of social resilience, and appropriate steps should also be taken in the fields of deradicalisation and rehabilitation. our first duty, our responsibility to our children, is to give our citizens back their sense of security. and to do that, we need to do everything we can to successfully fight radicalisation.
in writing. – it is of utmost importance to treat radicalisation and violent extremism as social phenomena and not as problems of a single religion or ideology; therefore, i believe that we should treat the real root causes behind radicalisation, namely marginalisation, discrimination and inequality. the eu and the member states should focus on local capacity-building, awareness raising, integration and education instead of expanding their surveillance measures or deciding to build walls. moreover, i cannot emphasise enough not to link the recent influx of asylum seekers with the extremist attacks that took place: asylum seekers more often than not have been forced to flee from the same kind of people that carried out these horrendous crimes, and the purpose of these attacks is to divide our societies. last but not least, i would also like to highlight the gender perspective of the issue. recent research not only underlines the trend of extremist groups creating targeted propaganda to attract women, but also emphasises the underestimated role women can play in tackling extremism in their families and local communities, which was also enshrined in the resolution on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations adopted last november by the european parliament.
madam president, in july 2015, an agreement was reached between the international community and iran. iran was given a limited and controlled nuclear program, and in return, sanctions against it were supposedly lifted. that's only theoretically because the united states has done everything, especially in the banking sector, to keep the sanctions in place. the eu has a fundamental interest, not only economically, but also in the migration issue, in a good, balanced relationship with iran and in the stability of the whole region. to do that, the united states really needs to lift sanctions and put pressure on its key partner, saudi arabia. because saudi arabia is currently involved in yemen in the form of war crimes, and in this context, tensions with iran are continuing to grow, and it is also in the eu's fundamental interest to de-escalate and end these tensions.
in writing. – education and training are important in helping people to acquire the knowledge and professional skills they need to become competitive and innovative employees. moreover, they could play important role in nurturing open-minded, empathic, inquiring human beings and responsible citizens with a strong sense of identity, a deep knowledge of their culture and heritage. we should welcome the fact that the paris declaration was reflected in the joint report and that the recalibration of et2020 has been done by putting on an equal footing employability goals and the promotion of social cohesion, equality, non-discrimination and civic competences. et2020 cooperation, while respecting the competence of member states, should complement national actions and support member states in their efforts to develop education and training systems. i welcome the et2020 stocktaking exercise. the et 2020’s four strategic objectives and current benchmarks remain valid as they were formulated in a comprehensive and forward-looking manner in the et 2020 council conclusions of 2009, providing a solid basis for et 2020 activities up to 2020. however, the policy focus needs to be recalibrated to include both the pressing economic and employment challenges and the role of education in promoting equity and inclusion and in imparting common european values, intercultural competences and active citizenship.
in writing. while education policy is a member state competence, the eu plays an active role in developing european education and training systems, supporting member states in this area, for example through the education and training 2020 (et2020) programme. based on the et2020 framework programme and other commission objectives in the field of education and training, one would think that member state governments would all have an interest in creating a modern education and training system. unfortunately, this is not the case in all member states. for months, teachers' unions, students' and teachers' associations, and parents have been demanding in vain that the orbán government reform the centralized education system, which has proven to be harmful. the government is reluctant to consult with the experts, the stakeholders, for political reasons. it follows that the hungarian government has deliberately created an educational system that excludes independent education experts, maintains segregated schools and displaces early school leavers en masse. this is why i would draw the commission's attention to the need to examine the use and effectiveness of funds received by hungary, for example, under et2020 and other european education and training programmes.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i have to say thank you to both rapporteurs for those files. we have had important and difficult discussions regarding the renewable energy progress report and the energy efficiency implementation report. to be honest, in the end, i believe that what we achieved at the level of the itre committee is really promising, and i can support the report as it was voted in the itre committee. of course, there are a lot of important issues, and some of them have already been mentioned by the rapporteur, mr pieper, and my colleagues as shadows. i agree with them regarding the importance of the full implementation of the existing current legislation, and also better reporting from the member states, the importance of research and innovation, a consumer-centric approach, and so on. but instead of going through all the relevant issues, i would like to point out only one very important topic: the question of targets. i believe that what has really happened in europe and what we have achieved in europe in renewable energy and energy efficiency in the last couple of years has absolutely been the consequence of ambitious binding targets. if we lose this framework from the energy market in europe for the climate policy in europe, for energy efficiency and renewable energy in europe, then anything which is said about our goals regarding renewables, energy efficiency and climate are nothing but wishful thinking. it is not a programme, it is not a european contribution to the global effort, it is just wishful thinking. so, what we need is ambitious binding targets on the eu level for energy efficiency, and also targets on the national level. without them, we cannot achieve what we have to achieve according to the paris agreement.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you've given a long analysis of the question of commitment. there are indeed commitments in paris, there are commitments in the european union and there are commitments at national level. but wouldn't it make more sense to change that rhetoric to talk about opportunities for innovation, not obligations?
mr. president, norway, one of the world's largest oil and gas producers, has announced that it will ban the use of diesel and petrol cars from 2025. saudi arabia, with the world's largest oil reserves, is currently implementing the world's most ambitious solar energy program. so it's not hard to see where the world is headed. we don't have to be fanatical environmentalists to understand why europe needs renewable energy. you don't have to like this, but you have to like the economic growth that's happening in europe because of renewable energy. you can love the millions of new jobs that have been created in this industry, and you have to love, of course, the technological innovation or energy independence that renewables bring to europe. it is therefore timely to talk about the progress of european policies on renewable energy. but because we see, and there was a consensus in this room, that we're going to achieve the 2020 targets, we're going to achieve them, we're going to do well, so it's worth looking beyond 2020. this is why we have proposed to maintain mandatory renewable energy targets beyond 2020 not only at european level but also at member state level, as this is the only way to provide predictability for the industry and, in parallel, the only way to demonstrate that if we have these targets, we will achieve them. and the other very important thing is that we have to roll out all the barriers to investing in renewable energy. there's an incredible amount of administrative, bureaucratic hurdles in europe today. it is the role of parliament to propose to the member states that these bureaucratic obstacles be removed. europe must be at the forefront of this change. just as oil and natural gas replaced the world of coal in the 20th century, the world of renewable energy is replacing the world of fossil and nuclear energy. europe must be at the forefront of this.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! between 1990 and 2014, the european union's gdp increased by 46%, while greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% over the same period. economic growth is achieved by reducing the climate impact of businesses and individual users, and eu directives to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and support renewable energy production play a major role in this. the commission's efforts to pursue a single climate and energy policy and a european electricity market are welcome, and it is setting even more ambitious targets. while the report contains a number of important and useful proposals, the mandatory 40% energy efficiency savings target for 2030 places excessive and difficult burdens on member states. i cannot support the unrealistic objective of an otherwise good report which affects the sovereignty of the member states to such an extent.
mr president, i would like to excuse myself. there is a mistake in the epp voting list. in paragraph 86 all the splits are positive. that is the right answer and i am sorry for the other colleagues.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between tax authorities in the member states is more important than ever to combat tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. the global economic and financial crisis of recent years has brought the importance and validity of burden-sharing to the attention of the public. it is estimated that member states lose billions of euros in revenue due to corporate tax avoidance. that is why, at the last plenary session, i supported the establishment of the committee and now its composition.
in writing. ‒ the establishment, powers and duration of the committee of inquiry were decided by parliament at its plenary session on 8 june. the decision adopted at that time provided for the composition of the committee of inquiry to be 65 members. parliament has now decided on the members of the committee of inquiry on the basis of the proposals put forward. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing members of the committee of inquiry into alleged breaches of the law and maladministration in the application of eu law on money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. as a member of the european parliament, i voted at the previous plenary session to set up the panama papers commission of inquiry, which will investigate offshore companies and their beneficiaries and will investigate alleged breaches of eu law on money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance by member states and the european commission, and the use of rebates. the newly elected 65 members of the governing body, along with their alternates, were given a job of great responsibility. we will have 12 months to investigate and report on alleged failures and abuses that have opened the way or made it significantly easier for certain companies and individuals to evade tax. the impact of money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance on society and the economy is extremely negative. but if our current systems are even helping and encouraging these illegal activities, we can expect catastrophic damage. the outcome of the commissioners' inquiry will hopefully answer many questions and contribute to the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance in the eu.
in writing. ‒ enlargement of the european union requires that existing agreements reflect the real situation, which is why i voted in favour of the adoption of the amendment.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the republic of lebanon and the eu, and therefore i voted in favour of it. this provides an opportunity for countries that have acceded since 2004, including hungary, to accede to the protocol.
in writing. lebanon was once the switzerland of the middle east, where the population lived in relative affluence and a high degree of religious tolerance. but this idyllic state did not suit certain forces, and between 1975 and 1990, the country descended into civil war and chaos. the former vital area of ancient christian cultures is slowly recovering from this difficult period, and i hope that the council's decision on the euro-mediterranean convention, cooperation between the eu and its member states, and lebanon's participation in eu programmes can help to do so.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted a draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. the decision shall also require the consent of the parliament. in its report, the committee on foreign affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to approve the additional protocol, in order to help bring into force as soon as possible the amendment to the legal framework of the previous agreement between lebanon and the european communities, which was essentially drawn up more than two years ago. the modernisation of the legal basis for cooperation between the european union and lebanon, including the adapted legal framework for the lebanese side to be able to participate in eu programmes, is particularly important in my view at a time when lebanon is playing a key role in the region in terms of migration to europe and international efforts to deal with the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the document relates to the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ enlargement of the european union requires that existing agreements reflect the real situation, which is why i voted in favour of the adoption of the amendment.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the republic of lebanon and the eu, and therefore i voted in favour of it. this provides an opportunity for countries that have acceded since 2004, including hungary, to accede to the protocol.
in writing. ‒ following the enlargement of the union in 2014, the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, took account of the accession of the republic of cyprus, the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the slovak republic and the republic of slovenia to the european union. the council adopted a draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol to this effect, but it must also obtain the consent of the parliament before adopting the decision. in its report, the committee on foreign affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the long-overdue modernisation of the legal basis of the previous agreement between the european communities and lebanon and the proposal for an additional protocol to adapt to the circumstances of an enlarged eu. i consider the adjustment of the legal basis for relations between the union and its member states and lebanon all the more appropriate given that lebanon has recently taken on an extraordinary burden in dealing with the wave of migration to europe and the refugee crisis and has emerged as a key partner of the eu in the region.
in writing. ‒ the document relates to the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of cyprus, the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the slovak republic and the republic of slovenia to the european union. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ enlargement of the european union requires that existing agreements reflect the real situation, which is why i voted in favour of the adoption of the amendment.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the republic of lebanon and the eu, and therefore i voted in favour of it. this provides an opportunity for countries that have acceded since 2004, including hungary, to accede to the protocol.
in writing. ‒ following the enlargement of the union in 2014, the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, took account of the accession of the republic of cyprus, the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the slovak republic and the republic of slovenia to the european union. the council adopted a draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol to this effect, but it must also obtain the consent of the parliament before adopting the decision. in its report, the committee on foreign affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to approve the additional protocol, in order to contribute to the legal framework of the previous agreement between lebanon and the european communities being amended in line with the legal environment following the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu. the modernisation of the legal basis for cooperation between the european union and lebanon, with its adapted legislation to the present circumstances, seems to me particularly appropriate in the current period, when lebanon has emerged as an important partner of the eu in the middle east region by taking on a priority role in the international efforts to address migration to europe and the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the document concerns the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european union and monaco negotiations on the automatic exchange of financial account information aim to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement could represent an important step forward in efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and updates a past agreement ensuring that monaco applies measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the aim is to address situations where taxable persons seek to conceal income or capital representing assets for which tax has not yet been paid. in line with oecd standards, the further provisions of the agreement aim to ensure that the information shared does not only cover income such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and income from the sale of financial instruments. the unconditional exchange of information under the new agreement should be provided upon request in line with the latest developments in the work of the oecd and the union in this regard.
in writing. i will continue to support all initiatives aimed at combating tax fraud and tax evasion. monaco is also a tax haven, and the agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information is therefore also effective in serving those objectives. the report correctly states that this will also bring the previous agreement of 2004 on the taxation of interest income from savings up to date.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted a draft decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of a protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco providing for provisions equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec. however, for it to enter into force, it must be approved by parliament. the report of the economic and monetary committee recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report approving the protocol to the eu-monaco agreement on the automatic exchange of financial accounting information. under the eu-monaco agreement of 2004, monaco has introduced measures equivalent to eu rules on taxation of interest income from savings. the new agreement aims to use the enhanced rules following the eu legal framework revised in december 2014 and in line with the oecd recommendations. this has brought the eu and monaco to a higher level of cooperation in preventing and combating tax fraud and tax evasion, which is welcome as it makes it easier to detect cases where taxpayers try to hide assets or income from the authorities for which they have not paid tax.
in writing. ‒ the european union and monaco negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which aims to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the text of this agreement was initialled on 22 february 2016 by a representative of the european commission and a representative of the government of monaco, and the formal signing would take place before the summer break, as soon as the council authorises it. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. belgium has submitted an application to mobilise the egf, under the reference number egf/2015/012 be/hainaut machinery, for a financial contribution from the egf. the commission has examined the application and found that it complies with the requirements of the relevant regulation, and i have therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ on 4 may 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by two companies in the hainaut region. this is the sixth application to be examined under the 2016 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total of eur 1 824 041 from the egf for the benefit of belgium. the application concerns 488 dismissed workers and approximately 300 young people not in employment, education or training (neets). the request was submitted to the commission on 17 december 2015 and supplemented by additional information until 31 december 2015. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers comprise the following six measures: assistance/counselling/integration; job search assistance; integrated training; aid for setting up a business; support for collective projects; aid for job search and training. the commission considers that the measures described above constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities under article 7 of the egf regulation. these activities are not a substitute for passive social protection measures. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. belgium has submitted an application to mobilise the fund to provide personalised services to 488 workers made redundant by carwall sa, caterpillar belgium sa and doosan sa in the hainaut region and to 300 unemployed young people under 25 who are not in training or education in the hainaut region. the measures planned for the 488 redundant workers are: assistance/counselling/integration; job search facilitation; integrated training; aid for setting up a business; support for collective projects and job search and training allowances, while 300 young people are to be provided with further education/training or with an introductory mobilisation and guidance to explore their interests; targeted training, personalised further training, job search, training and mobility allowances. the cost of the measures is eur 3 040 069. the commission proposed to the parliament and the council that the financial contribution to the measures under the egf regulation be increased to 60% and amount to eur 1 824 041. in its report, the committee on budgets proposes that parliament agree with the commission that the intervention criteria laid down by the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore eligible for the aid in question. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the fund aims to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade or made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and to support their reintegration into the labour market. i voted in favour of the belgian request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recovery plan for bluefin tuna. the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), which is the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and its adjacent seas. the aim of transposing the iccat recommendations is to ensure that they are applied uniformly throughout the eu. the uniform application should aim at ensuring a level playing field for all operators in the tuna fishery, in particular non-eu fishermen. otherwise, i.e. if different rules apply to foreign fleets, the efforts of eu fishermen and the restrictions imposed on them will be in vain. the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the union's fishing fleet is able to comply with the iccat convention. it is important that the european parliament does not lose its competence in this matter. the absence of the ep's participation in international negotiations would mean that it would have no say in the negotiations in iccat and subsequently in other international fora. the transposition of the recommendations of the regional fisheries management organisations should remain a joint competence of the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. one success story in the conservation of ocean fish stocks is that international restrictive measures have increased the bluefin tuna stock over the past decade to such an extent that it is now possible to increase the catches by 20% per year. the aim of the proposal is to be supported as it aims to consolidate the different regulations of the competent iccat committee, thereby ensuring that they are binding on all member states. the rapporteur rightly criticises the commission for putting eu fleets in a more difficult position with some of its measures and for wanting to operate by delegated regulations more than is absolutely necessary.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual plan to restore the bluefin tuna stock, which expires in 2022. the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council to repeal regulation (ec) no 302/2009 and to consolidate the measures adopted in the recovery plan between 2012 and 2014 into a single regulation. the committee on fisheries' report recommends that parliament approve the draft at first reading with 40 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. in making my decision, i took into account the fact that, according to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the bluefin tuna biomass has been following very favourable trends since 2008 and that there is solid scientific evidence that the bluefin tuna stock has reached a healthy level of abundance. based on the data provided by the regional organisation, the decision to bring forward to 2016 a total catch of (23 155 tonnes) is supported, which is still well below the total catch for 2017 and the total catch before the start of the recovery plan. i also welcome the fact that the iccat recommendations take into account the specificities of the different types of tuna gear and that in this context the report draws attention to the role of small-scale, traditional traps in conservation. the eu should pay particular attention to traditional traps when implementing the recovery plan, as these devices have a very low impact on marine ecosystems due to their low energy consumption and low by-catch. i also welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on the lack of involvement of the ep in international negotiations. i support the idea that the implementation of the recommendations of the regional fisheries management organisations should remain a joint competence of the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and its adjacent seas. iccat has the power to adopt conservation and management decisions (or recommendations) in its area of competence; these acts are binding and should be incorporated into union law. i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. ‒ a fully amended version of a report previously returned to the commission is put to the vote. the stocks of cod, herring and sprat are interlinked subsystems of the baltic sea ecosystem. the commission's original proposal already sought to address the interdependence of species. the amendment proposal, with its scientific references and justifications, further strengthens the legislative process with a complex approach. the proposal seeks to ensure the sustainability of the species in question, while taking into account the livelihoods of small-scale coastal fisheries. the commission's new approach to complex thinking which is further refined by the rapporteur and the amending proposal is also characterised by providing a framework for the establishment of a management plan that takes account not only of the stock changes of individual species but also of the interplay between the reproduction, habitat and fishing conditions of all the species referred to. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the fisheries of the stocks listed. the proposal aims to establish a multi-species management framework for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat. cod, herring and sprat accounted for more than 94% of the baltic sea catches in recent years. the baltic sea is a closed body of water, and all three species are found there. it is therefore essential to adopt a regulation recognising the interactions between the species concerned, including the impact of cod on herring and sprat stocks. further measures necessary to achieve the maximum sustainable yield for the stocks concerned should be defined on the basis of the regionalised approach of the common fisheries policy. however, the rules should be more closely linked to the principle of specific regionalisation and should allow for timely responses in the event of a sudden change in the situation of the stocks concerned. in the case of multiannual plans, the voice of the region concerned should be heard and acted upon, with the involvement of the european parliament at the appropriate stage.
in writing. sea fish are essential to a healthy diet. both fresh and canned baltic cod are available in most eu countries, including my own. the sustainability of cod, herring and sprat fisheries is likely to be addressed by complex legislation, which is essential to promote the stability of the regional ecosystem. the preservation of traditional small-scale coastal fishing is also an important socioeconomic aspect.
in writing. ‒ a management plan for cod in the baltic sea has been in place since 2008, but this does not yet apply to herring and sprat. however, since cod feeds on sprat and herring, the size of the cod stock influences the size of the herring and sprat stocks and vice versa. in october 2014, the commission published a multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries with the aim of establishing a single management framework for the three stocks. proposes that parliament and the council repeal regulation (ec) no 1098/2007, amend regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and incorporate into a regulation a multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries. the committee on fisheries' report recommends that parliament adopt the commission's proposal at first reading with almost 50 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a multiannual plan for the stocks and fisheries of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, as i welcome the commission proposal, which has been endorsed by the rapporteur, that a multi-species management plan is needed for the baltic sea. this approach is more efficient than species-only management and provides greater security for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities, including the livelihoods of fishermen. i also agree with the view that the measures necessary to achieve the maximum sustainable yield for the stocks concerned should be taken in accordance with the principle of regionalisation. this would ensure that sudden changes in the situation of stocks can be responded to in a timely manner. i also support the proposals for the protection of cod stocks during spawning, the protection of small-scale fisheries and an early review of the new management plan.
in writing. ‒ the european commission published a multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries in october 2014. the proposal aims to establish a multi-species management framework for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat. cod, herring and sprat accounted for more than 94% of the baltic sea catches in recent years. i voted in favour of the document on the agenda.
in writing. ‒ i have accepted the report of the legal committee on matrimonial property regimes. the report shall give appropriate coverage of jurisdiction, applicable law and recognition and enforcement of decisions. however, it does not cover the capacity of spouses, the existence, validity and recognition of marriage, maintenance obligations and succession after the death of a spouse. the autonomy of the member states in the field of family law is therefore guaranteed. the regulation can be a very useful tool for international couples living in the european union. in agreement with the rapporteur, the proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regimes is clearly in the interest of the union and of international couples living in the union. it allows them to end many confusing cases and legal difficulties. the current second proposal on this subject incorporates a substantial part of the amendments previously proposed by parliament.
in writing. ‒ the council decision on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial property regimes could not be adopted in the absence of the consensus required for all agreements in the field of family law. however, as 23 member states agreed in principle to the proposal, the council adopted the decision authorising enhanced cooperation, which was also agreed by the parliament at its meeting of 7 june 2016. the commission has now proposed to the council that it adopt a regulation to that effect, which will have to consult parliament. the legal affairs committee report concludes that the proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regimes is clearly in the interests of the union and of international couples living in the union. it will allow you to put an end to many confusing cases and legal difficulties. it contains a substantial part of the amendments previously proposed by parliament. it therefore proposes that parliament give a favourable opinion on the proposal. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report approving the commission proposal on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial property regimes, as it is clearly in the interests of the union and of international couples living in the union. i agree with the aim of the proposal, which is to reduce the practical and legal difficulties of international spouses living in the union in the day-to-day management of their property, or even in the division of their property following separation or death of one of the spouses. these difficulties are often caused by the fact that the provisions governing the property consequences of marriages differ significantly both in the legal provisions of the member states and in the private international law. although not all member states have joined the initiative, 17 eu member states have decided to provide a greater degree of predictability and legal certainty for international couples living in the union through an enhanced cooperation procedure, while respecting the principle of proportionality.
in writing. ‒ the present proposal for a council decision on jurisdiction and the law applicable to, and the recognition and enforcement of, decisions in matrimonial property regimes is the second on this subject. following the blockage of negotiations between member states as all agreements in the field of family law must be adopted unanimously this proposal returns to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the committee on legal affairs on the law applicable to the property aspects of registered partnerships. this proposal is the same version of the cases concerning matrimonial property regimes. the scope of the matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships covers jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions. however, it does not cover the legal capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity and recognition of the partnership, maintenance obligations and succession after the death of the spouse. the autonomy of the member states in the field of family law is therefore guaranteed. this regulation does not affect the substantive law of the member states on registered partnerships or their property consequences.
in writing. ‒ this draft regulation is the counterpart of the draft regulation discussed in the previous point. its adoption in this form is justified by the same circumstances and is also clearly in the interests of the union and of international couples living in the union. the committee on legal affairs therefore recommends in its report that parliament should give a favourable opinion on this proposal as on the previous one. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report approving the commission proposal on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships. in my view, the adoption of the proposal is in the interests of the union and of international couples living in the union, just as the proposal's counterpart seeks to make the property regime of married couples more predictable. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the union is to facilitate access to justice, in particular by applying the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions in civil matters. although the council concluded that unanimity could not be reached on the adoption of the draft regulations on the property aspects of registered partnerships, by february 2016, 17 member states had indicated their intention to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves in this area. i welcome this decision, as the increasing mobility of persons in the area without internal borders leads to an increase in the number of couples formed by persons of different member state nationalities, who also need to be guaranteed predictability and legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ the present proposal for a council decision on jurisdiction and the applicable law, as well as on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of property law relating to registered partnerships is the second in this field. following the blockage of negotiations between member states as all agreements in the field of family law must be adopted unanimously this proposal returns to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation. i voted for it.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the decades-long civil war in eastern congo is now africa's most serious armed conflict. the unrelenting wave of murder and violence has also had a dramatic effect on the lives of the christian churches, which make up the majority of the population. one of the most powerful militias in the region, the terrorist group known as the international muslim brotherhood, has been carrying out a particularly brutal crackdown on christian denominations and churches in the eastern congo region. we must repeat here the desperate cry of the christian communities in the congo: as in many parts of the world, genocide is being perpetrated in africa by the followers of islamic extremism. the aggression of the muslim brotherhood fits well with the overall islamist advance that has unfolded in many parts of africa. the aim of the militias following the ideology of international jihadist movements is to establish caliphates under islamic law across the continent in countries with significant christian traditions. the recent atrocities and executions in may have forced thousands of families to flee eastern congo, while religious leaders are trying to hold on to the deeply traumatized faithful. the continued intimidation has made it even more difficult for the communities to survive, as the catholic, anglican, and other christian denominations have stopped holding services. the international community, including europe, has a moral obligation to apply political pressure immediately to bring peace to the congo. and while the persecution continues, all available humanitarian and development resources must be mobilized to prevent another wave of refugees.
in writing. ‒ the ecr, ppe, s&d, gue/ngl, efdd, verts/ale and alde groups have tabled a motion for a resolution on the subject. with the exception of gue/ngl, the other six groups reached agreement and adopted a joint compromise motion. that's what i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the parliament's resolution, hoping that the european parliament would thereby draw attention to a widespread violence and mass human rights violations against which the international community has been unable to act effectively for nearly two decades. i find it particularly worrying and unacceptable that irregular armed militias of various compositions operating along the country's eastern border are systematically and deliberately committing violence against women and children, and often recruiting young children to fight and commit murders. i therefore support the demand in the resolution that the international community, including the un security council, should take much more decisive action than has been the case so far to stop the violence and punish those responsible. i agree that the european union should take the lead in this endeavour, in line with our common foreign policy objectives for africa and our european principles of human rights, by sending a special observer to the region and initiating concrete international sanctions against the perpetrators.
in writing. – education and training are important in helping people to acquire the knowledge and professional skills they need to become competitive and innovative employees. they can play an important role in nurturing open-minded, empathic, inquiring human beings and responsible citizens with a strong sense of identity, a deep knowledge of their culture and heritage. we should welcome the fact that the paris declaration was reflected in the joint report and that the recalibration of et2020 has been done by putting on equal footing employability goals and the promotion of social cohesion, equality, non-discrimination and civic competences. et2020 cooperation, while respecting the competence of member states, should complement national actions and support member states in their efforts to develop education and training systems. i welcome the et2020 stocktaking exercise. the et2020’s four strategic objectives and current benchmarks remain valid as they were formulated in a comprehensive and forward-looking manner in the et2020 council conclusions of 2009, providing a solid basis for et2020 activities up to 2020. therefore, i supported this resolution with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the aim is to increase the added value and optimise the efficiency of the existing framework. education and training play an important role in providing knowledge and professional skills that enable employees to be competitive and innovative. the number of people enrolled in higher education has increased dramatically over the past decade, but at the same time there is unprecedented youth unemployment. between 2011 and 2014, the average unemployment rate in the 28 member states of the union increased particularly among young people (aged 25 to 29) with tertiary education (+12.9%). this process must be stopped. the education and training 2020 strategy can be an important tool for promoting the knowledge economy and social inclusion. the objectives set an appropriate minimum threshold for qualifications and concern the raising of the level of education. an important aspect of a responsible education policy is the development of relations between schools and families. a supportive home environment can not only help to offset educational poverty but also to counter the appeal of violent extremism among young people. it is also important to involve parents in the current debates on education. parent organisations should be involved in the work of 'education and training 2020' and best practices should be applied in relation to cooperation between schools and families.
in writing. ‒ the commission carried out a synthesis evaluation of the education and training 2020 framework in 2014. the committee on culture and education's motion for a resolution on this point points out that education and training play an important role in the acquisition of the knowledge and professional skills needed to make employees competitive and innovative. they can also play an important role in the development of broad-minded, empathetic, inquisitive people and responsible citizens with a strong sense of identity, a good knowledge of their culture and traditions and a recognition and respect for common european values. the report welcomes the fact that the adjustment of the framework has placed equal emphasis on the objectives of employability and on social cohesion, equality, non-discrimination and civic competences. the report highlights that, although the number of people in higher education has increased exponentially over the past decade, this has been accompanied by unprecedented levels of youth unemployment in europe, including among those with a higher education qualification. it focuses in particular on the role of education and training in integrating the masses of people arriving in europe as migrants. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training, as it not only highlights the achievements of the work carried out under 'education and training 2020' to date, but also rightly highlights the further opportunities and challenges in the field of education and training. i agree with the report that there are still huge problems in quality, accessibility and socioeconomic disparities in education and training and that ambitious, coordinated and effective policy measures are needed at both european and national level. i also share the rapporteur's concern about the growing radicalisation, violence, abuse and behavioural problems that are already emerging at the level of primary education. it would therefore be useful for the commission to carry out research at union level in this regard, examining the response of member states to such trends.
in writing. ‒ the commission carried out a synthesis evaluation of the education and training 2020 framework in 2014 in cooperation with the member states. the interested parties made a number of recommendations to the commission and the council with a view to increasing the added value of the framework and optimising its effectiveness. the role of informal management bodies was strengthened and feedback loops were introduced between working groups, dgs or high-level groups. some member states still need to improve the way they interact with formal and informal organisations by sending the right person to the right meeting and using substitution as little as possible. i was very much in favour of the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energies requires a new approach that makes them a key pillar of the european union's energy model. the shift towards a sustainable energy production model is a societal priority that cannot be solved by the market alone. regulation and democratic participation are also necessary if we want to avoid negative social and environmental impacts. the eu's legal instrument is the renewable energy directive 2009/28/ec, which started the eu's transformation of the member states' energy structures. it sets binding targets and provides clear rules on supervision and monitoring. the commitment to promote biofuels in transport clearly harmed the food industry, rather than triggering a profound debate on the lack of coordination of logistics and urban planning policies and the need for comprehensive planning to ensure their sustainability. unfortunately, in many cases the report contains provisions which would allow the commission to set binding targets, to monitor them and to impose penalties if they are not met. this is clearly an interference with the energy mix of the member states. in many cases, the rapporteur expresses, implicitly or explicitly, the need to give the commission the power to adopt tax legislation within the member states' tax policies that favours renewable energy production and does not support fossil energy production and to achieve tax harmonisation in this area at eu level. all these factors combined to make me abstain.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's commitment to making europe the world leader in renewable energy. this is not only necessary for industrial policy reasons, but could also contribute to reducing the dependence of certain central and eastern european member states on a single fossil fuel supplier, thereby enabling the energy independence and security of europe, the world's largest energy importer. in addition, we have a responsibility to act on climate change, which can be greatly helped by increasing the share of renewable energy. a policy on energy sources based on national targets will in the long term guarantee the industry and investors the security needed to invest in electricity generation capacity and in transmission and distribution infrastructure. it is important that the definition of the energy mix of the member states remains a national competence, and that each member state is able to develop its own renewable energy sources and shape its energy mix. state aid measures have helped to achieve the eu's objectives in many member states, but decisive political momentum is needed to achieve further, more substantial results. to achieve an efficient and renewable energy model by 2050, regulation at european level must address a number of obstacles to progress: it must promote investment and its democratic oversight, and create a stable investment framework.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament welcomes the commission's commitment to making europe the world leader in renewable energy. this is not only necessary for industrial policy reasons, but could also contribute to reducing the dependence of certain central and eastern european member states on a single fossil fuel supplier, thereby enabling the energy independence and security of europe, the world's largest energy importer. in addition, we have a responsibility to act on climate change, which can be greatly helped by increasing the share of renewable energy. a policy on energy sources based on national targets will in the long term guarantee the industry and investors the security needed to invest in electricity generation capacity and in transmission and distribution infrastructure. it is important that the definition of the energy mix of the member states remains a national competence, and that each member state is able to develop its own renewable energy sources and shape its energy mix. state aid measures have helped to achieve the eu's objectives in many member states, but decisive political momentum is needed to achieve further, more substantial results. to achieve an efficient and renewable energy model by 2050, regulation at european level must address a number of obstacles to progress: it must promote investment and its democratic oversight, and create a stable investment framework.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament welcomes the commission's commitment to making europe the world leader in renewable energy. this is not only necessary for industrial policy reasons, but could also contribute to reducing the dependence of certain central and eastern european member states on a single fossil fuel supplier, thereby enabling the energy independence and security of europe, the world's largest energy importer. in addition, we have a responsibility to act on climate change, which can be greatly helped by increasing the share of renewable energy. a policy on energy sources based on national targets will in the long term guarantee the industry and investors the security needed to invest in electricity generation capacity and in transmission and distribution infrastructure. it is important that the definition of the energy mix of the member states remains a national competence, and that each member state is able to develop its own renewable energy sources and shape its energy mix. state aid measures have helped to achieve the eu's objectives in many member states, but decisive political momentum is needed to achieve further, more substantial results. to achieve an efficient and renewable energy model by 2050, regulation at european level must address a number of obstacles to progress: it must promote investment and its democratic oversight, and create a stable investment framework.
in writing. ‒ i have accepted the report by mr bermejo on renewable energy. the commission's commitment to make europe the world leader in renewable energy is welcome. this is not only necessary for industrial policy reasons, but could also contribute to reducing the dependence of certain central and eastern european member states on a single fossil fuel supplier, thereby enabling the energy independence and security of europe, the world's largest energy importer. in addition, we have a responsibility to act on climate change, which can be greatly helped by increasing the share of renewable energy. a policy on energy sources based on national targets will in the long term guarantee the industry and investors the security needed to invest in electricity generation capacity and in transmission and distribution infrastructure. it is important that the definition of the energy mix of the member states remains a national competence, and that each member state is able to develop its own renewable energy sources and shape its energy mix. state aid measures have helped to achieve the eu's objectives in many member states, but decisive political momentum is needed to achieve further, more substantial results. to achieve an efficient and renewable energy model by 2050, regulation at european level must address a number of obstacles to progress: it must promote investment and its democratic oversight, and create a stable investment framework.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament welcomes the commission's commitment to making europe the world leader in renewable energy. this is not only necessary for industrial policy reasons, but could also contribute to reducing the dependence of certain central and eastern european member states on a single fossil fuel supplier, thereby enabling the energy independence and security of europe, the world's largest energy importer. in addition, we have a responsibility to act on climate change, which can be greatly helped by increasing the share of renewable energy. a policy on energy sources based on national targets will in the long term guarantee the industry and investors the security needed to invest in electricity generation capacity and in transmission and distribution infrastructure. it is important that the definition of the energy mix of the member states remains a national competence, and that each member state is able to develop its own renewable energy sources and shape its energy mix. state aid measures have helped to achieve the eu's objectives in many member states, but decisive political momentum is needed to achieve further, more substantial results. to achieve an efficient and renewable energy model by 2050, regulation at european level must address a number of obstacles to progress: it must promote investment and its democratic oversight, and create a stable investment framework. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ parliament called for a higher ambition level and for a 2030 eu renewable energy target of 30%, in line with the union’s commitments (the paris climate agreement, decarbonisation and achieving a 100% res based economy by 2050). importantly, this target should be delivered through national binding targets. the ep also called for a consumer-centric approach, strengthened oversight by the commission and assistance for local operators, as well as targeted measures for low-income consumers. these measures would bring stability for investors and ensure an adequate level of investments; and technological lock-in, incompatible with the eu’s long-term goals, can be avoided. therefore, i supported the report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament welcomes the commission's commitment to making europe the world leader in renewable energy. this is not only necessary for industrial policy reasons, but could also contribute to reducing the dependence of certain central and eastern european member states on a single fossil fuel supplier, thereby enabling the energy independence and security of europe, the world's largest energy importer. in addition, we have a responsibility to act on climate change, which can be greatly helped by increasing the share of renewable energy. a policy on energy sources based on national targets will in the long term guarantee the industry and investors the security needed to invest in electricity generation capacity and in transmission and distribution infrastructure. it is important that the definition of the energy mix of the member states remains a national competence, and that each member state is able to develop its own renewable energy sources and shape its energy mix. state aid measures have helped to achieve the eu's objectives in many member states, but decisive political momentum is needed to achieve further, more substantial results. to achieve an efficient and renewable energy model by 2050, regulation at european level must address a number of obstacles to progress: it must promote investment and its democratic oversight, and create a stable investment framework.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on industry, research and energy proposes a resolution on the european commission's 2015 progress report on renewable energy. the report unanimously recognises that the union has a historic duty to combat climate change and to reduce its dependence on external energy sources. to this end, renewable energy must be made a key pillar of the european union's energy model. the report notes that with the adoption of the renewable energy directive 2009/28/ec, which sets binding targets, europe has started to transform the energy structure of the member states. however, while austria, bulgaria, the czech republic, denmark, estonia, finland, croatia, italy, latvia, lithuania, romania and sweden have already met their 2020 targets ahead of time or will soon do so, the report considers it necessary to call on belgium, the united kingdom, france, the netherlands, luxembourg, malta and spain to take further measures to ensure that their 2020 targets are met. it underlines that a decisive political push is needed if the eu is to meet and exceed the 2020 targets. the commission notes that the union's electricity market is characterised by a high level of renewable energy and that the union's electricity market is characterised by a high level of renewable energy. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the promotion of renewable energy and that it should be made a main pillar of the eu's energy model. i am absolutely right that we have a fundamental responsibility to fight climate change and a historic duty to fulfill. we must also reduce our dependence on energy sources from other parts of the world if we are to structure our production model, create quality jobs and lead the development of the strategic technologies on which our energy transition is based. i consider it a fundamental problem that the european council supports such a low target of 27% for the period after 2020 (to 2030). the fact that the target is only binding at eu level is also a concern, and thus gives some member states the opportunity to hide in the shadows of the best-performing member states. that is why i supported the report, which insists on a higher target and its binding nature at member state level. i think the age of government-linked energy lobbying is over, and i agree that energy policy is a social priority, not just an economic one. i share the view that regulation of the renewable energy sector at european level should address the many challenges that are holding back its development, promote public investment and democratic oversight, and create a stable investment framework for collective and democratic governance of the energy sector, with a view to achieving a fully self-sustaining, efficient and clean energy model by 2050.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energies requires a new approach that makes them a key pillar of the european union's energy model. it is our fundamental responsibility to fight climate change and it is a historic duty that we must fulfill. we must also reduce our dependence on energy sources from other parts of the world if we are to structure our production model, create quality jobs and lead the development of the strategic technologies on which our energy transition is based. i voted for the group's position in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ between 1990 and 2014, the european union's gdp increased by 46%, while greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% over the same period. businesses and citizens are achieving economic growth with less of a burden on the climate, and eu directives to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption play a major role in this. the european union is well on track to meet its 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%. this is largely due to the successful emissions trading system, which encourages investment in renewable energy and emission reductions. the commission's efforts to pursue a single climate and energy policy and a european electricity market are welcome, and it is setting even more ambitious targets. however, the mandatory 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 is excessive, as it would place an unacceptable burden on member states and impose unrealistic expectations on them. for these reasons, i did not support the adoption of the report in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ between 1990 and 2014, the european union's gdp increased by 46%, while greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% over the same period. businesses and citizens are achieving economic growth with less of a burden on the climate, and eu directives to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption play a major role in this. the european union is well on track to meet its 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%. this is largely due to the successful emissions trading system, which encourages investment in renewable energy and emission reductions. the commission's efforts to pursue a single climate and energy policy and a european electricity market are welcome, and it is setting even more ambitious targets. however, the mandatory 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 is excessive, as it would place an unacceptable burden on member states and impose unrealistic expectations on them.
in writing. ‒ between 1990 and 2014, the european union's gdp increased by 46%, while greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% over the same period. businesses and citizens are achieving economic growth with less of a burden on the climate, and eu directives to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption play a major role in this. the european union is well on track to meet its 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%. this is largely due to the successful emissions trading system, which encourages investment in renewable energy and emission reductions. the commission's efforts to pursue a single climate and energy policy and a european electricity market are welcome, and it is setting even more ambitious targets. however, the mandatory 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 is excessive, as it would place an unacceptable burden on member states and impose unrealistic expectations on them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the energy efficiency directive. between 1990 and 2014, the european union's gdp increased by 46%, while greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% over the same period. businesses and citizens are achieving economic growth with less of a burden on the climate, and eu directives to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption play a major role in this. the european union is well on track to meet its 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%. this is largely due to the successful emissions trading system, which encourages investment in renewable energy and emission reductions. the commission's efforts to pursue a single climate and energy policy and a european electricity market are welcome, and it is setting even more ambitious targets. however, the mandatory 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 is excessive, as it would place an unacceptable burden on member states and impose unrealistic expectations on them.
in writing. ‒ between 1990 and 2014, the european union's gdp increased by 46%, while greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% over the same period. businesses and citizens are achieving economic growth with less of a burden on the climate, and eu directives to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption play a major role in this. the european union is well on track to meet its 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%. this is largely due to the successful emissions trading system, which encourages investment in renewable energy and emission reductions. the commission's efforts to pursue a single climate and energy policy and a european electricity market are welcome, and it is setting even more ambitious targets. however, the mandatory 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 is excessive, as it would place an unacceptable burden on member states and impose unrealistic expectations on them.
in writing. ‒ ahead of the revision of the directive in question, i supported the report in which the european parliament has highlighted the role of energy savings and improved efficiency in achieving the eu’s energy and climate goals, including the mitigation of energy poverty. the ep has sent a strong signal to commission and called for the continuation of the framework beyond 2020. the ep has called for the eu’s 2030 energy efficiency target to be brought in line with the commitments made in paris, thus to be increased to 40% with the introduction of binding national targets. as for the existing directive, the implementation should be improved by removing loopholes, especially in article 7. synergies with the development of renewables must be exploited to the fullest. these would ensure predictability and stability for investors, an adequate level of investments and thus we can avoid technological lock-in incompatible with the eu’s long-term goals.
in writing. ‒ between 1990 and 2014, the european union's gdp increased by 46%, while greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% over the same period. businesses and citizens are achieving economic growth with less of a burden on the climate, and eu directives to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption play a major role in this. the european union is well on track to meet its 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%. this is largely due to the successful emissions trading system, which encourages investment in renewable energy and emission reductions. the commission's efforts to pursue a single climate and energy policy and a european electricity market are welcome, and it is setting even more ambitious targets. however, the mandatory 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 is excessive, as it would place an unacceptable burden on member states and impose unrealistic expectations on them.
in writing. the report's undoubted virtues are its support for peripheral countries and consumers in need, and its justified criticism of highly polluting biomass and coal-fired heating. but it's also a concern for subsidiarity, it's a flooded, poorly edited piece of material. it wants to renovate at all costs, even where there are simpler solutions, such as limiting the overheating of public and public institutions in winter and the overheating in summer. it over-scale renewable energy, which is important but not a replacement for green power plants.
in writing. ‒ on 18 november 2015, the commission published its report on the implementation of directive 2012/27/eu of the european parliament and of the council on energy efficiency. the committee on industry, research and energy proposes that a resolution be adopted on this report. the plan states that greenhouse gas emissions in the union decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. over the same period, the union's gdp increased by 46%. notes that the union is on track to meet the 2007 targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%. it is concerned, however, that the cost-cutting effect of energy savings is often eliminated by state special taxes and a complex reporting system. this is partly due to the contradictory eu climate legislation, the complexity of energy efficiency legislation and national energy policy actions, which have a significant impact on some aspects of the european approach. it therefore proposes to call on the european commission to make further efforts to achieve a single climate and energy policy and a european electricity market. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the issue of energy efficiency should be placed at the centre of the agenda to eradicate energy poverty. i believe that a 20% improvement in energy efficiency should not be a problem for member states and that we can even achieve a more ambitious target (40%) in the future. of course, this can only be achieved if member states really put this at the heart of their strategy. as a first step, i believe that improving energy efficiency in the home is the most important way to reduce energy poverty. i agree that the ets has an important role to play in both emissions and efficiency. i believe that reducing greenhouse gas emissions will also encourage investment in energy-efficient technologies. instead of punitive and incapacitating policies, we must prioritize policies that encourage innovation! i agree that the difficulty in meeting the targets can be partly explained by the fact that several countries have been in an economic and financial crisis. there is a need to address the partially contradictory eu climate legislation, the complexity of energy efficiency legislation and the national energy policy actions that have a significant impact on some aspects of the european approach. i find it interesting that the report states that 61% of imported natural gas is used in buildings (mainly residential buildings) and that an ambitious building renovation policy could reduce this by 60% in the short term. it's time to end the waste of energy and fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ greenhouse gas emissions in the union decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. over the same period, the union's gdp increased by 46%. businesses and citizens are increasing growth while reducing their impact on the climate, creating jobs and tax revenues. i voted for the group's position in the final vote.
in writing. the uk's withdrawal will impoverish europe and the withdrawal will require long and complex negotiations. the task for the 27 is to restore trust in the eu and to prepare for substantive european reforms in line with citizens' expectations. there is a need for self-criticism, a rethinking of the flawed immigration policy that was a key element of the british campaign, respect for the principle of subsidiarity, well-timed and realistic responses to european crises and a better alignment of the eu with citizens' expectations in all areas. these are the content challenges that need to be addressed first. only if leaders of the member states and the eu institutions face the criticism of the union, learn from it and take political responsibility will they be able to regain the trust of their citizens. the fidesz-kdnp delegation to the european parliament will as before use all possible means to make the views and interests of hungarian citizens appear at the european level and draw attention to the necessary changes.
in writing. the outcome of the brexit referendum will fundamentally shape not only the future of the united kingdom but also that of the european union. it is therefore important that the process should be swift and as peaceful as possible, in order to put an end to the grievances that divide europe. we call on the commission and the council to do everything possible to preserve the gains of free movement of labour and to represent properly the interests of european citizens working in the uk. the outcome of the vote is also a signal to the european community that we need to build a stronger, more democratic, more transparent union with credible answers to the problems of democratic deficits, dysfunction and the refugee crisis. the key question for hungary is whether it can participate in this process. if our country is left out of a stronger integration, which is no longer primarily an economic issue, then we will not only face economic backwardness, but also the resulting loss of democratic value. even britain, with a much greater economic weight than our country, was forced to incur very serious economic losses on the first day after the vote. weakening european cooperation can lead to an increase in social and political conflicts within europe and to economic weakening. since no responsible political force in europe can want this, political communication that populistally disparages brussels must be stopped immediately. instead, we must build a better europe to protect and fulfil our common values.
in writing. we regret the outcome of the referendum on the uk's membership of the eu, but we must respect it. it is in the interests of the island and of the european union that the withdrawal negotiations begin as soon as possible and that the united kingdom leaves our community in an orderly fashion. after brexit, we must not allow europe's eurosceptic extremist parties, agitated by the british referendum, to divert the european project and to carry out a campaign against the union based on misleading data and arguments, similar to the british campaign. the main task for us, the pro-european politicians, is to prevent such a domino effect. in the uk's eu membership campaign, the brexit camp successfully convinced voters that the eu is only for the rich. we need to show that the eu can lift up european citizens, reduce inequalities. and that requires us to start economic growth, to develop the economy. we cannot allow the european electorate to feel unsafe in the eu. without a common security policy, russia is a greater threat to europe's immediate neighbourhood. without a common eu border guard, europe is unable to cope with the refugee crisis. that is why we need a common defence policy and a common migration policy as soon as possible! the history of the eu is a series of political crises and their responses. i am convinced that european integration will be more important after the current crisis.
in writing. in the light of the precedents and the situation, i declare that the initiative of the right-wing british prime minister to hold a referendum was an irresponsible, narrow-minded, self-serving adventure that put the future of his nation ahead of his own survival in power, which has already led to the deterioration of his country's economic and political situation and reduced international mobility. if there is any hope of a positive european impact from the brexit drama, it is that the political crime of his british colleague will bring more sanity to orbán in hungary, or any other european leader who would likewise be inclined to put his own power considerations above the interests of his nation and push his country into anti-european, nationalist adventures. now, recovering from the initial shock, the eu institutions must do everything they can to build on the political lessons of the uk referendum and make a fresh start towards a more united, more effective eu that finally fulfils the ideal of a social europe. i would appreciate it if, in this context, the eu's truly democratic emotional leaders would finally stop and repress the minework of selfish nationalist politicians like orbán who are hindering the joint management of the crisis. i am convinced that with swift and targeted action, particularly in the wake of brexit, the eu member states that are ready to do so can soon embark on a path that can lead to a modern union that strengthens economic prosperity, social justice and europe's global weight. but the most urgent challenge is to finally manage the eu's current interconnected crises effectively, with a truly unified approach based on community solutions.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp people's party group, i regret the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. i supported the european parliament's resolution on this subject with the representatives of the european people's party, because i believe that the opinion of the majority of the british people should be respected and that stability and the interests of the remaining members of the european union should be ensured. the text of the resolution adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament's political groups, and i do not agree with all its elements. i miss, and i regret that the text is missing, the self-critical elements about the union, the reasons that led to the victory of the leaveers. the most important of these are: the union's faulty immigration policy, the frequent violation of subsidiarity by the eu institutions, the lack of viable european solutions, the delay in eu decision-making, the frequent disregard for the views of national parliaments. i do not think that the urgency is right either, because the process must be carried out in accordance with the eu treaties and the british constitutional order. i also consider it unnecessary for the european parliament to ask the council to represent the union in the procedure, since under article 50 tfeu the council has the power to appoint the negotiator - which may of course also be the commission.
in writing. ‒ the representatives of the fidesz and kdnp people's parties regret the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. we supported the european parliament's resolution on this together with the representatives of the european people's party, because we believe that the opinion of the majority of the british people should be respected and that stability and the interests of the remaining members of the european union should be ensured. the text of the resolution adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament's political groups, and we therefore do not agree with all its elements. we miss, and regret that the text lacks, self-critical elements about the union, the reasons that led to the victory of the leaveers, such as the union's flawed immigration policy, the frequent violation of subsidiarity by the eu institutions, the lack of viable european solutions, the delay in the decision-making of the union, the frequent disregard for the views of the national parliaments. we do not think that the urgency is right, because the process must be carried out in accordance with the eu treaties and the british constitutional order. we also considered it unnecessary for the european parliament to ask the council to represent the union in the procedure, since under article 50 tfeu the council has the power to appoint the negotiator - which may of course also be the commission.
in writing. ‒ the representatives of the fidesz and kdnp people's parties regret the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. we supported the european parliament's resolution on this together with the representatives of the european people's party, because we believe that the opinion of the majority of the british people should be respected and that stability and the interests of the remaining members of the european union should be ensured. the text of the resolution adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament's political groups, and we therefore do not agree with all its elements. we miss, and regret that the text lacks, self-critical elements about the union, the reasons that led to the victory of the leaveers, such as the union's flawed immigration policy, the frequent violation of subsidiarity by the eu institutions, the lack of viable european solutions, the delay in the eu decision-making process, the frequent disregard for the views of the national parliaments. we do not think that the urgency is right, because the process must be carried out in accordance with the eu treaties and the british constitutional order. we also considered it unnecessary for the european parliament to ask the council to represent the union in the procedure, since under article 50 tfeu the council has the power to appoint the negotiator - which may of course also be the commission.
in writing. ‒ the representatives of the fidesz and kdnp people's parties regret the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. i supported the european parliament's resolution on this subject with the representatives of the european people's party, because i believe that the opinion of the majority of the british people should be respected and that stability and the interests of the remaining members of the european union should be ensured. the text of the resolution adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament's political groups, and i do not agree with all its elements. i miss and regret that the text lacks the self-critical elements about the union, the reasons that led to the victory of the leaveers, such as the union's flawed immigration policy, the frequent violation of subsidiarity by the eu institutions, the lack of workable european solutions, the delay in the decision-making of the union, the frequent disregard for the views of the national parliaments. i do not think that the urgency is right, because the process must be conducted in accordance with the eu treaties and the british constitutional order. i also considered it unnecessary for the european parliament to ask the council to represent the union in the procedure, since under article 50 tfeu the council has the power to appoint the negotiator, which may of course also be the commission.
in writing. ‒ the representatives of the fidesz and kdnp people's parties regret the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. we supported the european parliament's resolution on this together with the representatives of the european people's party, because we believe that the opinion of the majority of the british people should be respected and that stability and the interests of the remaining members of the european union should be ensured. the text of the resolution adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament's political groups, and we therefore do not agree with all its elements. we miss, and regret that the text lacks, self-critical elements about the union, the reasons that led to the victory of the leaveers, such as the union's flawed immigration policy, the frequent violation of subsidiarity by the eu institutions, the lack of viable european solutions, the delay in the decision-making of the union, the frequent disregard for the views of the national parliaments. we do not think that the urgency is right, because the process must be carried out in accordance with the eu treaties and the british constitutional order. we also considered it unnecessary for the european parliament to ask the council to represent the union in the procedure, since under article 50 tfeu the council has the power to appoint the negotiator - which may of course also be the commission.
in writing. ‒ the representatives of the fidesz and kdnp people's parties regret the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. we supported the european parliament's resolution on this together with the representatives of the european people's party, because we believe that the opinion of the majority of the british people should be respected and that the stability and interests of the remaining members of the european union should be ensured. the text of the resolution adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament's political groups, and we therefore do not agree with all its elements. we miss and regret the absence of self-critical elements about the union and the reasons that led to the victory of the leaveers. the commission has also been active in promoting the integration of refugees and migrants, and has been active in promoting the integration of migrants and refugees. we do not think that the urgency is right, because the process must be carried out in accordance with the eu treaties and the british constitutional order. we also considered it unnecessary for the european parliament to ask the council to represent the union in the procedure, since under article 50 tfeu the council has the power to appoint the negotiator, which may of course include the commission.
in writing. ‒ the representatives of the fidesz and kdnp people's parties regret the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. we supported the european parliament's resolution on this together with the representatives of the european people's party, because we believe that the opinion of the majority of the british people should be respected and that stability and the interests of the remaining members of the european union should be ensured. the text of the resolution adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament's political groups, and we therefore do not agree with all its elements. we miss, and regret that the text lacks, self-critical elements about the union, the reasons that led to the victory of the leaveers, such as the union's flawed immigration policy, the frequent violation of subsidiarity by the eu institutions, the lack of viable european solutions, the delay in the decision-making of the union, the frequent disregard for the views of the national parliaments. we do not think that the urgency is right, because the process must be carried out in accordance with the eu treaties and the british constitutional order. we also considered it unnecessary for the european parliament to ask the council to represent the union in the procedure, since under article 50 tfeu the council has the power to appoint the negotiator - which may of course also be the commission.
in writing. ‒ the representatives of the fidesz and kdnp people's parties regret the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. we supported the european parliament's resolution on this together with the representatives of the european people's party, because we believe that the opinion of the majority of the british people should be respected and that stability and the interests of the remaining members of the european union should be ensured. the text of the resolution adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament's political groups, and we therefore do not agree with all its elements. we miss, and regret that the text lacks, self-critical elements about the union, the reasons that led to the victory of the leaveers, such as the union's flawed immigration policy, the frequent violation of subsidiarity by the eu institutions, the lack of viable european solutions, the delay in the decision-making of the union, the frequent disregard for the views of the national parliaments. we do not think that the urgency is right, because the process must be carried out in accordance with the eu treaties and the british constitutional order. we also considered it unnecessary for the european parliament to ask the council to represent the union in the procedure, since under article 50 tfeu the council has the power to appoint the negotiator - which may of course also be the commission.
in writing. ‒ following the council and commission statements on the above, the groups of the epp, gue/ngl and ecr, and the ppe, s&d, alde and verts/ale groups, have tabled a joint motion for a resolution. the quadripartite plan calls for the exit process to be started and completed as soon as possible in order to avoid uncertainty that is detrimental to all and to protect the integrity of the union. it indicates that the united kingdom may not claim any preferential or special treatment. it recalls that, under the agreement between the heads of state or government of february 2016, that withdrawal was annulled by a vote. he also stresses that any new relationship between the eu and the uk can only be discussed after the withdrawal process. it also advocates speeding up and deepening integration. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the representatives of the fidesz and kdnp people's parties regret the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom. we supported the european parliament's resolution on this together with the representatives of the european people's party, because we believe that the opinion of the majority of the british people should be respected and that stability and the interests of the remaining members of the european union should be ensured. the text of the resolution adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament's political groups, and we therefore do not agree with all its elements. we miss, and regret that the text lacks, self-critical elements about the union, the reasons that led to the victory of the leaveers, such as the union's flawed immigration policy, the frequent violation of subsidiarity by the eu institutions, the lack of viable european solutions, the delay in the decision-making of the union, the frequent disregard for the views of the national parliaments. we do not think that the urgency is right, because the process must be carried out in accordance with the eu treaties and the british constitutional order. we also considered it unnecessary for the european parliament to ask the council to represent the union in the procedure, since under article 50 tfeu the council has the power to appoint the negotiator - which may of course also be the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution outlining the situation following the outcome of the uk referendum on leaving the eu and the challenges and actions to be taken by the eu. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has taken a strong and almost unanimous position in favour of clarifying as soon as possible the uncertain legal and political situation following the uk decision, namely the immediate initiation and conduct of the procedure under article 50 of the treaty on european union. i believe this is in the interests of both the uk and the union, and in particular those eu member states, including my own country, which are facing similar domestic challenges of a nationalist nature. as a forward-looking element of the resolution, i strongly support the ep's commitment to continuing and strengthening european integration, better exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty or even amending the treaty. as a socialist politician, i find it particularly important that the creation of jobs and social justice are also highlighted as priorities in this approach. i believe that with the resolution adopted at this extraordinary plenary session, the european parliament has taken the political initiative in dealing with the situation following the british referendum, and i will actively support our continuing to play a leading role in this.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as a matter of solidarity i am going to address my speaking points on behalf of my colleague seb dance, whose flight has unfortunately been delayed. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for all their work on this important file. emission limits for non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) might not sound like the sexiest subject, but it is an important piece of the jigsaw when it comes to tackling air pollution. in cities, non-mobile machinery such as construction equipment on building sites, trains and generators can significantly contribute to air pollution in the eu, and nrmm contributes around 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total pm emissions. these harmful emissions are linked to low birth weights, asthma, pulmonary heart disease, strokes and a variety of cancers, and are estimated to cause 50 000 premature deaths across the uk alone every year, and 10 000 in london. this proposal is a perfect example of how trade in a common market can also deliver environmental and health benefits for citizens. rather than allowing manufacturers to undercut each other in a race to the bottom on environmental standards, these ambitious and binding measures on nrmm will ensure industry is manufacturing progressively cleaner engines for these machines, which will go a long way to cleaning up toxic air pollution in the eu. of course, should a post-brexit uk want to remain a part of the eu common market, which many proponents of brexit have said they support, the uk manufacturers will continue to be bound to these same rules, but without any national democratic representation having a say on how these rules are made. the inconvenient truth for those who sought to argue the environmental benefits of a britain outside the eu is that air pollution has an unfortunate habit of not respecting borders. over one third of the uk’s air pollution is blown in from across the english channel. cross-border cooperation and common laws across european countries will be crucial – whether britain is part of the eu or not – in ensuring we do not end up with a race to the bottom on environmental standards. any new regulations in the uk must reflect this reality. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – as a matter of fact, it is always a debate within the european union about what to do with our stricter regulations. i am personally really engaged in favour of such innovations and, of course, education on the other hand, which really tries to make people understand why these are necessary things. we have always suffered quite a lot of delays in many respects, and always we wanted to have our limits lower and higher, etc. but now a strict rule, a real vision of the future, is something we have to tell the people because this is the truth, our environment is in heavy danger.
according to mondata, the biggest challenge for the union today is to deal with the refugee crisis. no, the biggest challenge is stopping the migration! because there's very little hope of a cure. for decades, we've heard that communities of different cultures live together harmoniously in a society. the multicultural society has failed. but at the same time, we're chasing another dream, the hope of full integration, of immigrants fully integrated into european society, into european culture. and what do we provide for that? housing, education, training, social protection, health care. where does an eu citizen in a more backward, poorer region get all this? nowhere. and how much does it cost? we heard that if you don't want to accept the quota, you have to pay 250,000 euros for each migrant. we know this is not a surprise, but it's what a migrant costs for five years. this is an invitation for the migrants!
my fellow citizens! the report prepared by my colleague benifei - with whom i have had a very good working relationship in the field of disability - aims to achieve very important goals. i have mixed feelings about it. the biggest problem i see is that our electorate is not getting enough answers from this report, which deals with immigration issues. there are 21 million unemployed in the european union. youth unemployment has reached tragic levels in some member states. how do we explain to the citizens of the european union that they are less important to us now that they are proposing to increase the european social fund by 3%? but what we do agree on is that it is very important that immigrants to the european union have clear rights and clear obligations. a clear distinction should be made between economic migrants and refugees. the latter are indeed entitled to these services. we must also avoid the mistake of telling all the member states of the european union what to do. because there are many parts of the report that are either the exclusive competence of the member states or there is no consensus yet among the member states on the issue.
my colleagues! it seems that the european union simply refuses to learn the lessons of the brexit of a few days ago. the vast majority of european citizens think that migration must stop. tragic life situations - poverty, wars and the like - must be addressed at the root, and the roots must be addressed, and that at the scene or near the scene. you can't export these things to europe. you can call these people populists, you can call them extremists. but sooner or later, my dear colleagues, the people will rise up. is that right, madam commissioner? i'm waiting for your opinion on this. you can expect one country after another to leave the union. your european union will collapse like a house of cards unless you start thinking and listen to the people.
i would inform my colleagues that those members who were unable to speak in the debate because they were not able to do so - we all know that a written statement of no more than 200 words can be submitted at any one time during a sitting, which will be attached to the verbatim minutes of the debate and will be considered as a speech.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is the debate on the question for an oral answer on the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative, tabled by mr thomas händel on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000094/2016 b8-0709/2016) (2016/2793 ((rsp)).
it's a two-card draw. you said at the beginning of your speech that we should draw conclusions. and i heard that he only drew conclusions that concerned the european union as an institution. at the same time, would you be prepared to draw conclusions for the member states? for example, the hungarian government has lowered the compulsory school age from 18 to 16. thus, youth unemployment has skyrocketed. do you think this is the fault of the european union?
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report by dario tamburrano on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of an energy efficiency labelling framework and repealing directive 2010/30/eu (com (2015) 0341 c80189/2015 2015/0149 ((cod)) (a8-0213/2016).
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you have spoken at length about the advantages of this new system, mainly from the point of view of consumers and by allowing them to judge the products in question. but do you really think that the players in this industry deserve to be protected rather than encouraged in any way?
on behalf of the verts/ale group - my fellow members of parliament! there is indeed a very important file being debated in parliament at the moment, and it would be very important for consumers to be properly informed about the energy consumption data of the products they buy. however, the report that we finally adopted in the itre committee does not contain much of what mr tamburrano, the rapporteur, originally proposed. and in order to provide consumers with the right information, it is necessary to recover components that have been removed during the journey. it is essential that the rapporteur be given a proper mandate to continue negotiations with the commission and the council. it is inevitable that the new uniform energy labelling from a to g will cover all product groups by 2023 at the latest, not sometime in 2030. for labelled products, to obtain information on how much energy they will consume during their operation, a central database is needed and eventually a single label per product group.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. i will agree with you that social considerations should be given the highest priority in commercial strategies. so much so that the very section on taxation in the report says that tax avoidance or the exploitation of tax havens is not compatible with socially responsible behaviour. i would like to ask you whether you see the possibility that tax havens should not only be forgotten, but should be outright banned within the european union - many of our member states are still tax havens to each other.
the report rightly emphasises that, in addition to international aspects, trafficking in human beings is also a common phenomenon within the eu. a high proportion of perpetrators are eu citizens and the victims are typically women and children. i am moved to draw attention once again, without any immodesty, to my earlier initiative to institutionalize increased legal protection for particularly vulnerable victims, such as women, children and the elderly, and to impose stricter penalties on them in the member states' judicial systems. i believe that this should now be a more specific objective among the possible means of combating trafficking in human beings.
mr president, i wish to record that the hungarian scandal known as the quaestor case has been a great failure as far as banking control and supervision are concerned. the hungarian national bank failed to effect the necessary interventions before the collapse of this financial pyramid game, leaving tens of thousands of small investors outside of any guarantee or protection schemes. fatally, thousands of hungarian small investors turned towards other european asset management companies like the cypriot ironfx, which appears not to meet its financial obligations. in other words, it operates like a one-way tube, swallowing citizens’ money and trust without any return. i urge the commission to find specific ways of affording legal protection to citizens who have confidence in a hypothetically well-functioning financial internal market, but who do not have any means of defence in times of trouble, including in relation to criminal cases.
mr president, although enlargement has been one of the most successful european policies in recent history, there are voices which are calling for a halt to further enlargement of the european union, especially after the uk referendum. slowing down the enlargement process or doing it selectively is certainly a short-sighted decision and sends a bad signal to candidate countries like serbia, which was last week the only candidate state to be deprived of the possibility of opening negotiating chapters. these circumstances only invigorate anti-european forces in the country and are deeply disappointing for citizens, a great majority of whom, according to a recent poll, are favour of a european future for their country. we all agree that serbia is a key country in the western balkans and can contribute greatly to the success of many european policies, so there must not be any further delays. today we heard some excellent news from the paris conference. hopefully, we will not see similar delays in the future.
under the dutch presidency, one of the main tasks would have been to stop immigration. in contrast, the presidency has focused on dealing with the migrant crisis, on the basis of which quotas migrants should be distributed and on how to punish countries that do not accept this forced resettlement. the council is also unwilling to accept the brexit message. considering the european parliament elections, considering the opinion polls, considering the austrian provincial and presidential elections, brexit has only confirmed that the population of europe rejects the superstate arrangement. they don't want to live in an empire where the lives of 500 million people are controlled from one center! and how does the council react? i quote: 'europeans expect us to restore their faith in a better future, and we must do this together.' for me, as a hungarian mp, the phrase of the communist times rings back instead of confrontation. a brighter future for europe's citizens will come when we work together in a europe of nations.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. mr. vice president, i have to go. i have always listened to your words with great respect. you've just referred to democracy, the voice of the people and other important things. but do you think it's fair that we first expect you to decide here and then we discuss in the various bodies what it's really about? because i don't see that as democracy.
there is no doubt that the uk referendum is primarily about the uk's domestic political circumstances, but it would be wrong to limit the outcome of the vote to the uk's processes alone. the negative result also gave an opinion to brussels, to the european union, and to the power accumulated in brussels, the exercise of power. let's face it, there is no perfect government, and it's human to make mistakes. but that doesn't mean that those who wield power in brussels haven't made more serious mistakes. restrictive economic policies, over-regulation and, more recently, the handling of migration, immigration, all point to a one-sided power situation. looking back over the past few years, it seems that the integration process has lost its way somewhere. if we do not succeed in creating a closer, bilateral relationship between the union and its citizens, this growing distance will sooner or later lead to a crisis much greater than the current one.
the brexit victory is bad news for europe and bad news for the united kingdom. we're already seeing the first consequences: economic downturn, political chaos, and of course, the disappointment, the realization that we made the wrong decision. but there's something else we need to talk about. that the brexit victory was the result of lies, fear-mongering, xenophobia. the brexit leaders have grossly, viciously deceived the electorate. and now that they've achieved their goal, that they've led the uk to a dead end, they're backing down. of course, it's easier for mr. farage to sit here than to face the eyes of a deceived electorate. but this referendum is also proof that populist, anti-european forces have no real arguments. they can only win if people believe their lies, their loud but baseless promises. today we all need to know: europe has no alternative! all those who toy with the idea of leaving after brexit are the worst enemies of their own country. today, europe faces challenges and conflicts that cannot be resolved within the framework of the member states. what is needed is not a stupid policy of closure and fences, but responsibility, common solutions, a common european policy. the experience of the referendum is that indecision, concessions, and side-talk do not stop the populist lie, the anti-europe. today, i think we have a triple task. on the one hand, the withdrawal process must be conducted in such a way that european values and principles are not the subject of dispute. on the other hand, we must fight populism and anti-europeism with greater determination and commitment than ever before. thirdly, we must seize the opportunity and take decisive steps to complete the european project, alongside a strong and federalised european union.
in writing. for the first time in its history, after the european union, it is losing a member. this vote upset the whole of british political life, but it didn't seem to do much damage in europe. the members of the european council, collectively and individually, acted as if nothing unexpected had happened or at least nothing that they could not handle. this calmness is more like paralysis. in europe, too, there is a shift in responsibility. cameron's political shortsightedness, farage's lies, and juncker's incompetence have been exposed. but this finger pointing is just to cover up the fact that no one has any idea how to move on. merkel met with the six founders over the weekend, but apparently only to gauge who is willing to do what on the issue of eu reform. the european council's response to date has been insufficient. the future of the eu is still for the heads of state or government to decide. they have to reform the eu. if they don't start working on it soon, the roof could come down on us sooner or later. we must act quickly and decisively, especially because there is still a majority in europe who believe in cooperation. especially the young. and we really need europe! two things are certain: europe today is not equipped to deal with a crisis, but without europe, there can be no effective, forward-looking responses to a crisis on the continent.
there are many ways to think about brexit, but the fact is, the british made history. and this is a historic moment, this is a historic situation that other nations, other countries, other states have an obligation to take advantage of. for us hungarians, for example, to learn the lesson that we were deceived after 12 years, we have to rethink our accession treaty. we need to sit down and renegotiate these terms, especially the land question. the land, the hungarian land, must remain in hungarian hands! we need to reorganize our accession in such a way that a foreign eu citizen or any other citizen cannot acquire land in hungary under any legal title. we are now seeing the consequences of bad accession conditions, that entire counties have been taken over by foreigners - and this must be prevented. we thank the british for creating a situation where we can shape our own history.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement granting eu citizens visa-free short-stay visas. the agreement is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the republic of peru and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on various issues. it would also strengthen regional coherence, as peru is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens require a visa, and would thus also make a significant contribution to bringing european citizens and peruvians closer together. the agreement will strengthen trade and investment. the eu is peru's third largest trading partner (mainly machinery and transport equipment) and the main recipient of peruvian exports (agro-food and mining products). in addition, the eu remains the largest investor in peru, with over 50% of foreign direct investment coming from the eu. strengthening the position of democracy and human rights remains an important issue for peru, and the visa liberalisation agreement can contribute to a balanced and in-depth political dialogue on human rights and specific issues such as the situation of women.
in writing. although the rapporteur insists that the visa exemption is justified in order to facilitate the economic and trade relations that are soon to be established, i do not see any real chance of this happening in the knowledge of peruvian products and services. it's more likely that certain lobbying interests are playing a role. in fact, neither business nor personal relationships are prohibited by the current system. not to be overlooked is the fact that peruvian crime statistics are not rosy either.
in writing. ‒ on 19 may 2015, the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. the negotiations started on 20 may 2015 and the agreement was initialled by the parties on 9 june 2015. the council adopted a draft decision on the ratification of the agreement, but this still requires parliament's consent. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs points out that the republic of peru is a relatively stable democracy, which, like the european union, stands for the values and principles of democracy, good governance, human rights and the rule of law. the vast majority of schengen visa applicants are granted a short-stay visa, with a refusal rate of 6,1% in 2014 and around 3,0% in 2015. in 2014, 43% of applicants were granted multiple-entry visas. on the basis of all these considerations, the report recommends that parliament give its consent to the draft council decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the recommendation on the agreement between the eu and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. in my decision, i took into account that the adoption of the visa waiver agreement will greatly contribute to the deepening of relations between the two parties in economic and cultural terms, and, moreover, will significantly strengthen regional coherence. politically and institutionally, peru is a relatively stable democracy, which, like the eu, stands for the values and principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and is an important latin american partner in this respect. the agreement will boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment links. moreover, peru can become a key partner in the fight against organised crime. in terms of mobility, the rate of return has been improving steadily since 2010 and the peruvian government is making further efforts to reduce this number.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the republic of peru and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement would strengthen regional coherence, as peru is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens require a visa, and would thus also make a significant contribution to bringing europeans and peruvians closer together. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft resolution on emission limit values and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines in non-road mobile machinery and equipment, as the machinery covered by the draft regulation is responsible for a significant proportion of nitrogen dioxide emissions, so regulating the area is of paramount importance. air pollution as a serious threat to human health and the environment should be addressed as a matter of priority. the emission limit values for engines covered by the draft regulation are regulated by an existing directive. this directive has been amended several times, but several technical reviews have identified shortcomings in the current form of the legislation. the scope is too limited as it does not cover certain engine categories. the last time new emission stages were introduced was in 2004 when the directive was amended, which no longer reflects the current state of the art. in addition, the emission limit values for each engine category are not consistent. i consider it particularly important that a compromise has been reached with the council, which represents the member states, since the legislation will be in the form of a regulation and will thus enter national legal systems immediately.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs gardini's report on emission limit values, which have the dual purpose of protecting the environment and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for engines for non-road mobile machinery. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has already formulated an opinion on the report, which states that it is necessary to ensure that manufacturers can comply with environmental standards in a way that does not hinder the union's competitiveness. manufacturers should be helped to adapt to new environmental requirements without reducing them. the health and safety of citizens, in particular of those who work with the machinery covered by the proposal on a daily basis, is the main element of the proposal. i particularly support the rapporteur's view that, from the point of view of competition, he believes that smes, which create many jobs, can be in a vulnerable position and that it is necessary to grant them certain advantages. since according to commission data non-road mobile machinery and equipment accounts for 15% of all nox emissions in the european union, the problem needs to be addressed. this is because the vw diesel scandal also had nox values exceeding the limit values in real driving conditions. in order to safeguard trade and competitiveness, the commission should develop standards that provide environmental and health benefits for citizens.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limit values and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines of non-road mobile machinery and equipment. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety recommends that parliament should support the commission's proposal with 44 amendments at first reading. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ we all agree that emissions need to be reduced and that this can be achieved by setting strict limits. the majority of society also agrees that we need to tighten up the emission limits not only for combustion engines on the road but also for non-road machinery and equipment. the latter are responsible for 15% of all nox and 5% of all particulate matter emitted by the european union. the report is an important part of the union's air quality and air protection strategy, and i agree with its findings and have voted in favour of it. in addition to reducing emissions as the main objective, this obviously also means market harmonisation, the elimination of market distortions and administrative simplification. simply put, it can stimulate innovation and help create jobs. i think the companies and cities involved understand that, and they're going to use financial incentives to achieve the necessary reductions. in my speech on the subject, i said that this is a good example of how the common market can bring environmental and health benefits and that air pollution does not stop at the borders of the european union. so this is the kind of regulation that will affect post-brexit britain, whether it's inside or outside: cross-border cooperation and rules between european countries will always be important!
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur welcomes in principle the commission's proposal for a regulation which aims primarily to address public health concerns raised by studies classifying ultrafine particles as carcinogens, to contribute to the general improvement of air quality and to create a borderless market within the european union and with our main global trading partners. the phased approach, which differentiates between engine sizes and types of machinery, allows for a smooth implementation of the regulation in the industries covered by the new requirements, taking into account the diversity of engines and machinery. i voted for the s&d position.
one of the most impressive reports yet, and the competition is fierce. some quotes: successful integration of refugees requires not only integration into the labour market, but also access to language courses on arrival, accommodation, education, training, social protection and healthcare. says point (k). then, as a provocation, point (n) lays down the fact that 24.4% of the total population of the european union is at risk of poverty and social exclusion and almost 10% is suffering from severe material deprivation. what does this mean for the eu? that the channels of legal migration need to be further developed, that more migrants are needed. a permanent relocation mechanism should be established for each member state. the establishment of a common asylum system is urgently needed. it also expresses concern at paragraph 38 about the decision of some member states to close their internal borders. i am a citizen of such a country and i am proud of it.
in writing. ‒ i would like to emphasise that education promotes social inclusion and labour market integration. all legally recognised refugees, in particular girls and women, should be guaranteed access to school-based education, informal learning and education outside the school system, and lifelong learning linked to work experience. it is also necessary to establish reliable and transparent procedures for the recognition of qualifications acquired abroad outside the european union. member states should develop language training in which the teaching of a general and a professional language is closely linked. however, because of certain wording in the report concerning economic immigrants, i did not vote in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. if we insist that the masses of predominantly young men are not economic migrants but political refugees, then on the one hand, we have to ask ourselves why they are not trying to protect their loved ones who are left in their war-torn country, or their homeland at all. it's also a question of why they smuggle across multiple safe countries, green borders, burning their documents en route. then, in the light of recent attacks, we need to consider how many of these could be trained terrorists and why they have not been effectively screened by the eu authorities, or even screened at all, with the tools at their disposal. we also have to think about the enormous shock we are causing these poor, unfortunate asylum seekers who don't speak any european languages by forcing them to integrate into a completely foreign european society, when, for example, in the rich countries of the arabian peninsula with the same religion and culture, with vast areas of land lying unused, they would have a much better chance. europe should help saudi arabia and the surrounding countries in this process by political influence and advice and by matching asylum seekers with them.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on employment and social affairs draws attention to the need for further, and possibly even greater, efforts to create the conditions for the integration of asylum seekers and refugees into our society in a rapid, efficient and fair manner, and addresses the difficulties that stand in the way of this, once the new european agenda on migration has been adopted. asylum seekers and refugees are the most vulnerable group of migrants. particular care shall be taken to provide assistance to children, in particular to children travelling without an adult. on the other hand, the union is emerging from the worst economic crisis since the second world war, and the instruments and programmes available at the eu level are not sufficient to cope with this enormous task. moreover, social reception and integration measures are often unpopular, people feel threatened by asylum seekers and refugees, seeing the potential for increased competition in access to services or employment, especially in places where unemployment is high and social conditions are particularly difficult. the report makes suggestions, recommendations and comments to achieve better social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees. i was in favor of accepting it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report because i believe it is particularly important that refugees who arrive in europe are given adequate opportunities to be placed on the labour market. the sooner these war refugees can get back to work, the sooner they can contribute to the performance of the european economy, and this growth will create new jobs. the more opportunities refugees have to work, the better their chances of social integration. i consider that the replacement of education, training and retraining, language training, is particularly important for the integration of the labour market, because it makes employment possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, which takes a positive and constructive approach to one of the most serious challenges facing europe as a result of the migration crisis, while at the same time not concealing the seriousness of the problem. as a socialist politician, i particularly agree with his starting point of solidarity between member states, the humane treatment of refugees, the need to ensure equal human and labour rights and the obligation to promote cultural, social and labour market integration. however, i have unquestioning doubts about the principles and the practical feasibility of the desired objectives and procedures. there are member states which deny eu solidarity on this issue, where as part of government policy they refuse to accept refugees, consider the social integration of people from other cultural and religious backgrounds undesirable or even impossible, close their labour markets to them and in some cases carry out a campaign of incitement against refugees and foreigners. in these circumstances, it is to be hoped that this report and decision will also contribute to the eu's ability to reduce such phenomena in the member states and to successfully manage the refugee crisis in terms of its positive impact on employment and the host social environment.
there's only one humane and good sentence in this report. it's 17/b. he says that the guidelines developed by the un special rapporteur on the right to food should also be implemented. the problem with that sentence is that it's in total contradiction to all the other sentences and things in the report. because this whole report is about free trade, and it's written in the spirit of free trade, and it's written in the spirit of neoliberal economics. this particular un approach, this food self-determination, is built on the idea that every community, every nation has the right to grow its own food. the land, the arable land, has to remain in the hands of the local community, and they can produce their own food, whereas the essence of free trade is to transport food from one part of the world to another in a completely unviable way, generating huge profits, while destroying the environment and destroying local entrepreneurs. so there's a total contradiction between the two principles. i, for one, am in favor of food self-determination. but since it was only one sentence, in complete contrast to all the others, i could not vote for the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is on the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, submitted by the ep's international trade committee. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume to unrelated customers in the union increased by more than 10% during the period considered. the aim is also, of course, to ensure that eu companies have free access to third country markets. the report considers it essential to adhere to the oecd declaration on international investment and multinational enterprises. this material is a typical example of the confusion of legitimate objectives (e.g. human rights, labour rights) with objectives that do not promote the interests of broad sections of society but only those of multinational companies. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ trade is a means of promoting european values and can also serve as a social and environmental benchmark in everyday life. closer cooperation with the international labour organisation is needed in the application of the provisions on sustainable development. it will also be necessary to monitor the implementation of human rights clauses in the international treaties of the european union, in particular the exclusion from european markets of products produced using slave labour and in violation of fundamental human rights. the report relies heavily on the implementation of the recommendations on human rights and corporate responsibility contained in the 2010 parliamentary recommendation on sustainable development, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ trade is a means of promoting european values and can also serve as a social and environmental benchmark in everyday life. closer cooperation with the international labour organisation is needed in the application of the provisions on sustainable development. it will also be necessary to apply human rights clauses in the european union's international treaties and to monitor the implementation of the regulation, in particular to ban products created by slave labour and in violation of fundamental human rights from european markets. the report relies heavily on the application of the recommendations on human rights and corporate responsibility contained in the 2010 parliamentary recommendation on sustainable development, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ trade is a means of promoting european values and can also serve as a social and environmental benchmark in everyday life. closer cooperation with the international labour organisation is needed in the application of the provisions on sustainable development. it will also be necessary to apply human rights clauses in the european union's international treaties and to monitor the implementation of the regulation, in particular to ban products created by slave labour and in violation of fundamental human rights from european markets. the report relies heavily on the application of the recommendations on human rights and corporate responsibility contained in the 2010 parliamentary recommendation on sustainable development, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ trade is a means of promoting european values and can also serve as a social and environmental benchmark in everyday life. closer cooperation with the international labour organisation is needed in the application of the provisions on sustainable development. it will also be necessary to apply human rights clauses in the european union's international treaties and to monitor the implementation of the regulation, in particular to ban products created by slave labour and in violation of fundamental human rights from european markets. the report relies heavily on the application of the recommendations on human rights and corporate responsibility contained in the 2010 parliamentary recommendation on sustainable development, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by ms forenza, as the promotion of gender equality and the fight against tax evasion by multinational companies must be integrated into all our policies, including the eu's trade strategy. effective compliance with the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw) should be ensured. the report calls on the commission to take gender equality considerations into account when assessing the impact of the union's trade strategy on women's rights and to systematically assess existing trade and investment agreements to identify their impact on gender equality. it should be noted that the report highlights the role of trade and foreign direct investment in increasing prosperity in poorer countries. in the context of the eu's trade strategy, it is also important to tax companies appropriately, to pay tax where economic activities take place and value is created, and to support the country-by-country reporting obligation of the private sector. the tax policy of multinational companies should be considered as part of corporate social responsibility and the use of tax avoidance or tax havens is not compatible with socially responsible behaviour.
in writing. ‒ closer cooperation with the international labour organisation is needed in the application of the provisions on sustainable development. there is also a need to monitor the application of human rights clauses in the international treaties of the european union, in particular the exclusion from european markets of products produced using slave labour and in violation of fundamental human rights. the report draws heavily on the implementation of the recommendations on human rights and corporate responsibility contained in the 2010 parliamentary recommendation on sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ trade is a means of promoting european values and can also serve as a social and environmental benchmark in everyday life. closer cooperation with the international labour organisation is needed in the application of the provisions on sustainable development. it will also be necessary to apply human rights clauses in the european union's international treaties and to monitor the implementation of the regulation, in particular to ban products created by slave labour and in violation of fundamental human rights from european markets. the report relies heavily on the application of the recommendations on human rights and corporate responsibility contained in the 2010 parliamentary recommendation on sustainable development, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. who would not support the enforcement of labour rights, gender equality, strict social and environmental standards, and the elimination of child labour in partner countries as well? or who wouldn't support companies paying taxes where they actually do business and create value? all is well. it would be if, once again, the elements were not woven into the fabric that serve not the interests of broad sections of society but only those of multinational corporations.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution of 8 november 2010, parliament made recommendations to the commission on social and environmental standards, human rights and social responsibility. the international trade commission report shall provide an overview of the recommendations implemented and those not implemented. it proposes that parliament should call on the commission and the member states to integrate a gender mainstreaming approach into all their policies, including the eu's trade strategy. calls on the commission to ensure greater coherence in development, effective policy evaluation and coordination between development aid and trade policy, and on the european union and the member states to ensure that companies pay tax where economic activities take place and value is created, through binding measures. it also proposes that the eu's trade strategy should be used as a tool to promote democratic values in third countries. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ trade is a means of promoting european values and can also serve as a social and environmental benchmark in everyday life. closer cooperation with the international labour organisation is needed in the application of the provisions on sustainable development. it will also be necessary to apply human rights clauses in the european union's international treaties and to monitor the implementation of the regulation, in particular to ban products created by slave labour and in violation of fundamental human rights from european markets. the report relies heavily on the implementation of the recommendations on human rights and corporate responsibility contained in the 2010 parliamentary recommendation on sustainable development, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, as a co-legislator, is involved in the development of the union's common commercial rules, for example by approving trade agreements. i believe that the most important elements of agreements should be social, environmental, human rights and corporate responsibility. i agree that trade plays a key role in promoting business opportunities, creating prosperity and increasing employment rates, and that it promotes economic development, social progress, improvements in the quality of life and the long-term improvement of human rights standards. i also agree that the eu can make a positive contribution to greater respect for human rights and sustainable development globally through its trade policy. these agreements have an impact on human rights and sustainable development and should therefore support social and environmental progress by ensuring that european standards, human rights, social and environmental standards are respected. the report stresses that, in relation to corporate liability, companies should pay tax where they carry out their economic activities. in this context, i asked for confirmation of the ban on tax havens within the eu during the debate on the report. i believe that when we talk about tax preferences in trade agreements, we cannot allow member states to fish tax revenues away from each other. i agree with the report as a whole and voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ corporate social responsibility should cover new areas such as work organisation, equal opportunities and social inclusion, anti-discrimination measures and the development of lifelong learning and training. i voted for it, following the group's position.
in the race for the bizarre, the preamble to this report should be highlighted, which reads: 'as other variables such as demographic change will also have an adverse impact on the union's position in world trade. whereas the union's share of the world population is expected to decrease from 7,1% in 2013 to 5,3% in 2060. so there are no children being born in the european union, or at least not enough of them. we have a demographic crisis, but what's the problem? it's that it's unpleasant for our share of world trade. we don't really deal with this demographic challenge much, by the way. just say it in a completely unrealistic, anti-life approach to migration. when the european union already has the answer to this problem. not that you'd want to see what we've done wrong? what is wrong with this europe that people don't want descendants, don't want children? we're going to do it by importing from the other side of the world -- well, let's say -- people from a completely different culture, people in a miserable situation, who are going to have to create their own society, their own economy, on the spot. it's really sad.
in writing. ‒ the report is about a new, forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment and builds on the commission's october 2015 proposal 'trade for all: towards a more responsible trade and investment policy'. in this context, the commission sets out the clear objective of rapidly increasing trade liberalisation and further integrating the union into global value chains. we disagree with the neoliberal mindset that global free trade can only lead to a lasting stagnation for the average european citizen, just as real wages have been slowly stagnating for two or three decades in this region. the reason is simple: if multinational companies can manufacture in low-wage countries but sell their products in high-wage countries at prices that match their higher wage levels, they can make huge profits, but the result is not only cheaper products but also high unemployment, insecurity and economic stagnation. in a global free market environment, wages will eventually level out, but at the cost of the degradation of developed areas, the emergence of rust zones. i rejected the report on all counts.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently the world's strongest economy. however, the economic importance of the european union will decline, with the focus of wealth creation shifting eastwards towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic changes will also have a negative impact on the union's position in world trade. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking economic and investment strategy is therefore crucial for the european union. trade policy in the 21st century must respond to people's concerns. we need more transparency, participation and accountability for all relevant stakeholders. trade and investment agreements should be shaped to serve as powerful tools for strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide. i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out strategies to achieve the above objectives.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently the world's strongest economy. however, the economic importance of the european union will decline, with the focus of wealth creation shifting eastwards towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic changes will also have a negative impact on the union's position in world trade. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking economic and investment strategy is therefore crucial for the european union. trade policy in the 21st century must respond to people's concerns. we need more transparency, participation and accountability for all relevant stakeholders. trade and investment agreements should be shaped to serve as powerful tools for strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently the world's strongest economy. however, the economic importance of the european union will decline, with the focus of wealth creation shifting eastwards towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic changes will also have a negative impact on the union's position in world trade. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking economic and investment strategy is therefore crucial for the european union. trade policy in the 21st century must respond to people's concerns. we need more transparency, participation and accountability for all relevant stakeholders. trade and investment agreements should be shaped to serve as powerful tools for strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently the world's strongest economy. however, the economic importance of the european union will decline, with the focus of wealth creation shifting eastwards towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic changes will also have a negative impact on the union's position in world trade. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking economic and investment strategy is therefore crucial for the european union. trade policy in the 21st century must respond to people's concerns. we need more transparency, participation and accountability for all relevant stakeholders. trade and investment agreements should be shaped to serve as powerful tools for strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on an innovative future strategy for trade and investment. we need to recognise the challenges europe faces today, not just in the brexit referendum, but also in our global ambitions. the union is currently the world's strongest economy, but its economic importance will decline by 2050 and the (still) 28 eu member states will account for only 15% of world gdp, compared to 23.7% in 2013. the focus of wealth accumulation is shifting eastwards towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic changes will also have a negative impact on the eu's position in world trade. many eu citizens identify globalisation with the loss of jobs and worry that eu trade and investment policies could undermine european standards. we need to listen to their concerns. at the same time, the contribution of external trade to the development of the european economy is essential. however, we need more transparency, participation and accountability for all relevant stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently the world's strongest economy. however, the economic importance of the european union will decline as the focus of wealth creation shifts eastwards towards the asia-pacific region. demographic changes will also have a negative impact on the union's position in world trade. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking economic and investment strategy is therefore crucial for the european union. trade policy in the 21st century must reflect people's concerns. greater transparency and accountability is needed for all stakeholders. trade and investment agreements should be shaped to serve as powerful tools for strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently the world's strongest economy. however, the economic importance of the european union will decline, with the focus of wealth creation shifting eastwards towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic changes will also have a negative impact on the union's position in world trade. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking economic and investment strategy is therefore crucial for the european union. trade policy in the 21st century must respond to people's concerns. we need more transparency, participation and accountability for all relevant stakeholders. trade and investment agreements should be shaped to serve as powerful tools for strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
in writing. the recipe for multinationals is simple: take production to places where labor is cheap, where child labor is okay, or where there is no union representation, and then sell the product where higher wages result in higher purchasing power. the result is misery and exploitation in one place, unemployment and lack of future in another. there are fractured societies everywhere. and no matter how much profit you make, it's never enough. you just have to look at the statistics, how many families have the lion's share of the world's wealth. is this good for humanity? as far as possible, we have to go back to local production, to local trade, for example, we don't have to go far, just to switzerland, to finland. and if even lending remains within national limits, then we can truly have the age of livable societies.
in writing. ‒ the international trade commission report takes the view that, although the european union is currently the world's strongest economy, its economic importance will decline: by 2050, the 28 eu member states will account for only 15% of global gdp, compared with 23.7% in 2013. it therefore urges the establishment of an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking economic and investment strategy for the european union. notes that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, and that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for women and men in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, and that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions; it points out that access to certain data strengthens parliament's control and therefore proposes to call on the commission to extend the transparency initiative to all future negotiations and to call on the council to publish all negotiating mandates. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently the world's strongest economy. however, the economic importance of the european union will decline, with the focus of wealth creation shifting eastwards towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic changes will also have a negative impact on the union's position in world trade. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking economic and investment strategy is therefore crucial for the european union. trade policy in the 21st century must respond to people's concerns. we need more transparency, participation and accountability for all relevant stakeholders. trade and investment agreements should be shaped to serve as powerful tools for strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide. i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out strategies to achieve the above objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a new forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment, and i also welcome the commission's new strategy 'towards a more responsible trade and investment policy'. i agree with the approach of the report that trade is not an end in itself but a means to achieve prosperity and equality, to promote business opportunities, sustainable economic development, social progress and cultural understanding, to increase employment and to improve living standards. i also welcome the report's emphasis on the importance of the agri-food sector and its call for new markets to be opened up for eu agricultural products such as dairy products, meat and live animals, and fruit and vegetables. finally, i support the report's points on trade policy transparency, greater involvement of civil society and social partners, and the specific needs of micro-enterprises and smes.
in writing. ‒ trade negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the agreement on trade in services have put european trade policy at the centre of public attention. many eu citizens identify globalisation with the loss of jobs and worry that eu trade and investment policies could undermine european norms and standards. at the same time, the contribution of external trade to the development of the european economy is essential. i voted for the final text.
the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations is the title of the report. well, this fight against human trafficking, human trafficking, trafficking in women, has been going on for as long as i can remember. not just since the seven years i've been hearing about all kinds of struggles here, but long before that. someone show me the result of all this struggle. it's a revenue-expense thing, so to speak. so how many jobs have been created? we're now coming to the point where one of the most disgusting quasi-industries is human trafficking, a horrible form of crime. but there's a parallel industry with jobs, with huge international organizations, fighting against human trafficking, against trafficking in women. where are the results? because we hear about numbers that are getting worse, more tragedies. what this has brought to this lot of investment and struggle is point 1. point two, what's the conclusion all the time? people in very difficult situations are going to be victims of human trafficking, so to speak, in the third world. what's the solution? it's legal immigration. here's the trick that kept me from voting on this report. thank you, thank you. because that's not the answer.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is an increasingly important problem in the european union. forced displacement has always existed, but has gained momentum with the improvement of border interoperability. i would like to call on the eu institutions and the member states to pursue a consistent policy both within and outside the union, in line with the union's fundamental values, by treating human rights as a central element in the union's relations with all third countries and by using them as a tool to promote the enjoyment of human rights, in particular economic and trade relations. awareness-raising and education activities among vulnerable groups of the population are important, as this would prevent a significant proportion of cases. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. – according to the latest global slavery index, 35.8 million persons are estimated to be trapped in situation of modern slavery worldwide, while according to the ilo around 21 million people are in forced labour globally, being trafficked for labour and sexual exploitation or being held in slave-like conditions. therefore, the fight against trafficking in human beings should remain at the heart of the eu’s development policies and partnerships with third countries. the eu and the member states should increase cooperation with third countries in order to investigate all stages of trafficking in human beings. with clear, firm steps against smugglers / human traffickers, the death of thousands could be prevented during the current migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on combating trafficking in human beings. trafficking in human beings is one of the most heinous forms of crime and the industry which unfortunately grows out of it must be completely eliminated. i agree with the report that in our societies, which are based on respect for human rights, including gender equality, there is no place for such activities. the concept itself should be interpreted in a holistic way, focusing not only on sexual exploitation but also on forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriage, the problem of child soldiers or the trafficking of infants. trafficking in human beings may also be a consequence of global economic and social inequalities, which may be exacerbated by social inequalities between men and women. this must be prevented, as violence against women is identified in the eu strategy as a trigger for trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on foreign affairs stresses that trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery and one of the most serious human rights violations, a crime that capitalizes on human suffering, and therefore condemns it unequivocally. it points out that in addition to sexual exploitation, this includes forced labor, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriage, the recruitment of child soldiers, and the trafficking of infants. it takes into account global trends in trafficking in human beings, its economic aspects and the different forms of exploitation. it violates the rights of victims, including the right to legal redress. it makes recommendations for the eu's external action policy on trafficking in human beings. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it could promote the positive change that i, along with other politicians and meps, have long advocated: greater coherence in eu foreign and security policy, and the promotion of the union's principles and standards internationally. this report provides the most comprehensive eu case to date, underpinning the urgency of the issues surrounding trafficking in human beings and outlining the means to do so. in addition to the international aspects, it rightly emphasises that trafficking in human beings is a common phenomenon within the eu, with a high proportion of perpetrators being eu citizens and the victims typically being women and children. it is also important to me because it can draw attention to my earlier initiative to institutionalize enhanced legal protection for particularly vulnerable victims - women, children, the elderly - and to punish offenders more severely in the member states' judicial systems. i am convinced that the implementation of the objectives and proposed solutions contained in the report just adopted, in the context of close and constructive interinstitutional cooperation, should remain on the ep's agenda in the future, in order to curb the inhumane practice of global trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings, as part of organised crime, is one of the most serious forms of human rights abuse, as it reduces people to commodities and seriously and persistently violates the dignity, integrity and rights of the victim, and affects entire families and communities, and deliberately exploits vulnerable situations such as poverty and isolation. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on budgets in the light of the uk referendum only adopted its report on the mid-term review of the current seven-year framework, which preceded the european commission's proposal, last week. in order to protect cohesion funds and rural development funds, the text emphasises that reductions in funds previously allocated to member states are legally excluded from the review and adds that direct payments under the common agricultural policy should not be affected by the process. this ensured that the eu tender resources sought by the current hungarian government could not be reduced by the review and that the subsidies from hungarian farmers were also secured. the report recommends raising the ceilings on payment levels to avoid a 'liquidity' problem that occurred in the previous financial framework, i.e. to have sufficient resources to pay the cohesion invoices that come at the end of the cycle. unfortunately, we have to point out that, despite the opposition of the mps of the people's party, a new fallacy of the flawed socialist-liberal immigration policy, which is eerily similar to the proposals formulated by george soros, prevailed during the committee vote. the socialists and liberals would introduce a bonus-malus mechanism, which would impose financial penalties on member states that do not take in immigrants on the basis of quotas.
since the panama papers and luxleaks came to light, there is no question that the eu and its member states must take strong action against tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. the commission estimates that €1 trillion is lost every year due to tax fraud and tax evasion. the implementation of this joint action would be facilitated, for example, by making tax havens impossible or by their permanent abolition. there is no point in cooperating within the union if harmful tax systems continue to allow tax evasion to take place. and by the way, there are tax havens not just outside the eu, but inside the eu. it is therefore necessary that the commission, as soon as possible, develop a common union definition and list of non-cooperating jurisdictions and impede and sanction all forms of cooperation against them for all banks, financial institutions, companies and individuals operating in the union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like first of all to thank mr pabriks and my fellow shadows and their colleagues for their commitment and the willingness and expertise they brought to the table. i would also like to express my gratitude to the dutch presidency and the commission for their efforts. we have a very intensive five months behind us, but i am really proud to have been a part of this process. we have achieved a lot together. this regulation is a good example of what the european union can achieve if there is enough political will. this proves that the eu, its institutions and its member states are able to deliver results. under the new regulation, the management of the external borders of the european union will be the shared responsibility of the member states and the european union. i very much welcome this new approach, because safeguarding the schengen area, which provides freedoms for and at the same time ensures the security of our citizens, requires commitment and solidarity among the member states at their external borders. this is a european matter, and the regulation is clear on that. one of the priorities of our group was ensure that the agency had a bigger role in search and rescue at sea. for years, we saw lives being lost in the mediterranean. this situation will be improved by the new regulation. search and rescue operations will be an important component of european integrated border management. the agency starts by supporting member states in carrying out these operations. given the increased role of the agency in border controls, handling migratory pressures and carrying out returns, we had to ensure that fundamental rights considerations were adequately addressed. i believe we have managed to strike the right balance in this regulation. the fundamental rights officer of the agency will have an enhanced role comparable to that agency. i know that there are those who are not convinced about this new agency. i share some of their concerns. the european border guard agency is not a silver bullet in solving the refugee crisis in europe, and will not end the chaos and inhuman conditions at our external borders. however, i do believe that it is a good step in the right direction, and i think we will see good results.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. i'm here from hungary, which means that it was also a country that was in a very difficult position in terms of border control at one point in its history. but life in hungary is not easy now. and that is why i ask you if you have any vision of what will happen if one of the schengen countries, with noble simplicity, opposes this newly created agency?
today, it is clear that europe needs to be more effective in protecting its external borders. the only way to maintain internal border security - which is one of our greatest values in the european union today - is to control the situation at the union's external borders. it is a good thing that this recognition, although at least a year late, has now led european decision-makers to create the european border and coast guard. finally, it is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens, to ensure the internal security of the union and to be part of the management of the wave of migration and the dismantling of human trafficking networks. where a member state is unable to protect the common external borders, it should be open to cooperation in order to ensure adequate border protection through joint action. i hope that the european border and coast guard will be a good practical example of solidarity and close cooperation between member states.
i would like to join my colleagues in congratulating the rapporteur, andreas schwab, for a great job. we are indeed at the end of important negotiations that have made it possible to create a european culture of cybersecurity. this environment is important because our citizens live in a digital world: the healthcare world, the finance world, but also the transportation world, and i could go on and on. and we need to make them feel safe, so that they feel safe to move around in this environment and to use these devices. it is also important that member states take appropriate action. as the commissioner mentioned, we can build infrastructure, we can bring in all the companies that could be most affected. we don't have to take extreme steps, we have to take proportional steps to take the right step on the right path.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am very pleased that you have listed the issues which we, and i myself, believe the slovak presidency should address, and i am thinking in particular of the social dimension. at the same time, i would like to ask you whether your party, your group, sees any possibility of this presidency helping slovakia to break away from its previous, and rather criticised, position on the asylum question.
my fellow members of parliament! europe has changed dramatically. for many decades, we, the countries of central and eastern europe, have been the ones who have wanted freedom, the desire to be not only the victims of our own country's fate, but also the shapers of it. let's say that we have now reached the point where the west -- which we have looked up to so much -- is in a situation where the majority of its citizens look hopefully and almost beggingly at central and eastern europe, at the visegrad countries, and expect from us freedom, expect from us that if they have already been betrayed in their freedom of expression, in their freedom of the press, then we say that the king is naked, that mass migration is pointless, that we protect them from their own lying and distorted values state leaders. this is a serious mission, i wish it success and if, during your presidency, the human rights and dignity of our hungarian brothers and sisters are also fulfilled in your geographical area to the extent that mr timmermans sees, then we will be very happy. we wish you the best of luck. have a good one.
mr prime minister, mr president the importance of the eu presidency in central and eastern europe and slovakia is being assessed in the context of the migration crisis of the past year and the brexit referendum. europe can only respond successfully to the serious challenges that threaten the political, economic and social stability of the entire continent if the countries of the region cooperate. i welcome the fact that the priorities announced by the slovak presidency include a sustainable migration and asylum policy, which is intended to redirect the eu's flawed policy in this area. the problems created by the influx of millions of people are placing the countries of the union before almost insurmountable challenges, whether it is stopping and controlling the growing influx, distributing and providing for immigrants, achieving integration with a huge financial burden, the clash between muslim and european cultures, or, indeed, stopping the rampant violence and terrorism. the slovak eu presidency has gotten its axe in a big tree. the slovak authorities have already taken steps to ensure that the eu's migration policy is not disrupted by the eu's external borders, and that the eu's external borders are not disrupted by the eu's external borders.
in writing. i look forward to the slovak presidency with great hope. as a disabled mep, i was pleased to see that despite the many shortcomings of the dutch presidency, an important dossier was successfully closed, namely the directive on accessibility of websites in the public sector. the slovak presidency will have to deal with a similar but much broader dossier, the european accessibility act. it will obviously not be closed this semester, nor in a year's time, but if this dossier is not seriously dealt with in the council at the outset, it will set the pace of the whole process in advance. so i'm pleased that this issue will be given high priority over the next six months.
in writing. europe is not a project of elites, not of bureaucrats in brussels. europe is the project of all those who do not want war and destructive nationalism. slovakia is the best example of how the european project works, how seemingly irreconcilable differences can be resolved. thanks to european mediation, hungarian and slovak parties are governing together, parties that haven't even spoken to each other in 20 years. so don't tell me that brussels has to be stopped or that the european project is obsolete. one of our main tasks in the next presidency is to prevent anti-eu forces from diverting the european project based on lies and people's fears. eu membership is a historic opportunity to join the ranks of the developed nations and to become part of the world's most powerful economic and political alliance. there is no alternative to eu membership. a slovak politician colleague of mine put it this way: "you either sit at the table or you are on the menu". if we listen to irresponsible politicians and vote to leave the union, the world's most powerful economic and political alliance, we will be making a historic mistake. there is no life outside the union and it is the task of the next slovak presidency to show that. whether we sit at the european table or are on the menu is a choice we have to make.
in writing. it has recently been five years since the european framework for national roma strategies came into force. although the framework has produced some results, no significant progress has been made in recent years. this view was confirmed by the opinion of ngos on the subject and by the court's recent report on development funding for roma. the commission's report of 28 june on this subject also identified a number of problems to be solved. the five-year anniversary, the halfway point of the framework, is a good opportunity to give new impetus to european roma policy and to take more decisive action than ever before to address the social, housing, health and employment problems of europe's largest minority and to eliminate the discrimination and prejudice against them. i therefore urge the slovak presidency of the council to adopt conclusions in the next six months that will strengthen the implementation of the framework, ensure the civil and professional oversight of national strategies, and better involve roma communities in programmes. the european framework is needed to ensure the elimination of school segregation, protection against evictions, effective social integration of roma and the reduction of anti-gypsyism.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, there are two types of politicians, and after the uk referendum we have seen both. one is very good at and very effective in destroying things which have been built through decades of hard work. after the destruction is completed, they leave the scene and do not want – or are not able – to participate in building further. the sign of this escapism is shown at this very moment with mr farage’s empty seat. the majority of colleagues in this parliament have been choosing a different way, which is to deliver in time the commission work programme 2017 for the first time in several years, which is one way of participating in rebuilding, step by step, through hard work. after the turbulent past years, something for sure needs rebuilding. there is a need for economic recovery, for renewal, for a better europe, but what we most need to rebuild is the diminishing public support for the european project. let me quote my favourite sentence from the resolution we are going to adopt this afternoon: ‘europe now faces many common global challenges, but also increasing frustration and worry among many citizens about uncertain life prospects and the lack of opportunities that citizens expect decision-makers to respond to’, and ‘whereas it is urgent to win back the hearts of europeans’. this is the most important which we have to do, but merely by continuing our job, business as usual, we cannot do that. we have to rebuild the trust only with change, sometimes with radical change in order to meet the requirements and the expectations of citizens. i do not want to fall into the other trap of politicians to exaggerate too much, but i think that this resolution – with the very good collective work of the last few months of negotiations with the leadership of maria joão rodrigues – is a step in the right direction. a modest step, but i think in rebuilding europe, rebuilding trust is a very important one. it is significant that this is the first time in several years that we are bringing this paper, the knowledge of the commission, much earlier so we can really use this instrument in order to influence by hard negotiations the work of the commission. just let me end by saying that what we want is basically to provide the best conditions for future young generations, for smes, for business, to create employment and to reshore jobs. the single market is a great opportunity but needs a digital dimension. there is a new deal, as the commissioner has mentioned. a new deal is needed in order to rebuild the trust, not just between the people and politicians, but also between european and national politicians. this is how we can listen to the hearts of the people. listen to your heart.
mr president, in order to deliver in 2017, the commission will have to change its approach in many areas. if economic growth is to create jobs, then the neoliberal economic policies that have been in place until now must be broken. the migration crisis needs to be made clear and recognised as a global problem, not just a problem for the union, especially in the united states, which has a major responsibility for the anarchy of the arab spring and should therefore be much more involved in the solution. with brexit, it is not enough for the commission to steer the technical aspects of the withdrawal. the commission has the expertise to develop variants of european cooperation on a completely new basis. and i reject the idea that those of us who believe in this are anti-european or extremists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol on the participation of azerbaijan in eu programmes. the purpose of the protocol is to lay down all the financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain union programmes open to third countries. the specific conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in specific programmes will be determined by agreement between the commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan. the eu-azerbaijan relationship is not only an important pillar of the eastern partnership of the european neighbourhood policy, but the caucasian country is also an important energy partner of the union. however, relations between the eu and azerbaijan are not limited to energy security and the relevance of the partnership should be considered in the light of all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership. the rule of law, human rights and democracy remain the main principles on which the union's relations with third countries are based. in this context, the framework agreement under examination aims to promote cooperation between different sectors and to encourage people-to-people contacts for the benefit of society.
in writing. azerbaijan is an unavoidably important factor in the region, playing a decisive role in terms of security, migration and stability. participation in eu programmes and the expansion of bilateral relations go beyond energy security to include legal, civil and human rights recommendations. this framework convention should therefore be supported in the context of the partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted a draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes, annexed to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part. the purpose of the protocol is to lay down all the financial and technical rules enabling the republic of azerbaijan to participate in certain union programmes open to third countries. for the adoption of the decision, the council shall obtain the consent of parliament. the committee on foreign affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of the motion because i believe it would send the wrong signal to the azerbaijani government about eu principles and standards. although the proposal is essentially technical, stemming from the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), i do not see any justification for progress in our relations, as neither the azerbaijani side is showing progress towards respecting european democratic standards. this is a dictatorial government that continues to gravely violate the democratic rights of its own population, while continuing to contribute to the destabilisation of the region and to the maintenance of tension in its external relations, including in the context of the nagorno-karabakh conflict. in considering my negative vote, as a hungarian representative, i could not ignore the responsibility of the azerbaijani government in the so-called safarov case, in which it unfortunately colluded with the hungarian orbán government in a criminal way. (the convicted azerbaijani military officer who murdered his armenian comrade out of nationalist hatred was extradited by the hungarian authorities to azerbaijan, where he has been treated as a national hero and provoked armenians since then.) given that armenia has suspended diplomatic relations with eu member hungary as a result and that the irregularity of the case is permanently embedded in the regional conflict, the case directly affects the interests of the union and hinders its external relations ambitions. in my view, in such a situation, the eu should make the settlement of the safarov case a condition for the development of eu-kazakh relations. i wrote to the high representative to that effect, but did not receive a satisfactory answer to my questions; i was therefore unable to support the motion.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the protocol is to lay down all the financial and technical rules enabling the republic of azerbaijan to participate in certain eu programmes open to third countries. the specific conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in specific programmes will be determined by agreement between the commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the report states that a budget surplus of eur 1349 million was generated in 2015 and should be entered in the 2016 budget, with a reduction in the proportion of gni paid by member states under previous agreements by that amount. the european parliament encourages member states to use the money thus recovered to deal with the refugee crisis. the ep also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. indeed, it is not appropriate to return any unspent money to net contributors, which should be used to cover payment shortfalls. accordingly, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to transfer to the 2016 budget an amount of eur 1349 million in surplus from the 2015 financial year. the main sources of the surplus of eur 1349 million were a positive revenue statement of eur 980 million on the revenue side, an unused amount of eur 187 million on the expenditure side and a balance of exchange differences of eur 182 million. the fernandez report endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016, which adopted draft amending budget no 2/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to transfer to the 2016 budget an amount of eur 1349 million in surplus from the 2015 financial year. the main sources of the surplus of eur 1349 million are the positive revenue statement of eur 980 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 187 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 182 million. the fernandez report endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016, which adopted draft amending budget no 2/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to transfer to the 2016 budget an amount of eur 1349 million in surplus from the 2015 financial year. the main sources of the surplus of eur 1349 million are the positive revenue statement of eur 980 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 187 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 182 million. the fernandez report endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016, which adopted draft amending budget no 2/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to transfer to the 2016 budget an amount of eur 1349 million in surplus from the 2015 financial year. the main sources of the surplus of eur 1349 million are the positive revenue statement of eur 980 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 187 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 182 million. the fernandez report endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016, which adopted draft amending budget no 2/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to transfer to the 2016 budget an amount of eur 1349 million in surplus from the 2015 financial year. the main sources of the surplus of eur 1349 million are the positive revenue statement of eur 980 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 187 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 182 million. the fernandez report endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016, which adopted draft amending budget no 2/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to transfer the surplus of eur 1349 million from the financial year 2015 to the 2016 budget. the main sources of the surplus of eur 1349 million are the positive revenue statement of eur 980 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 187 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 182 million. the fernandez report endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016, which adopted draft amending budget no 2/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to transfer to the 2016 budget an amount of eur 1349 million in surplus from the 2015 financial year. the main sources of the surplus of eur 1349 million are the positive revenue statement of eur 980 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 187 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 182 million. the fernandez report endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016, which adopted draft amending budget no 2/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to transfer to the 2016 budget an amount of eur 1349 million in surplus from the 2015 financial year. the main sources of the surplus of eur 1349 million are the positive revenue statement of eur 980 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 187 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 182 million. the fernandez report endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016, which adopted draft amending budget no 2/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. this is a small number and, in relation to the eu, almost insignificant when broken down by country. it would be much more appropriate in the future not to redistribute such residual amounts but to use them to finance payments that were previously missed but were eligible and for which adequate coverage has not yet been found.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 was adopted by the commission on 15 april 2016. the council adopted its position on the draft on 17 june 2016 and forwarded it to parliament on the same day. the draft aims to introduce a surplus of eur 1349 million from the 2015 financial year into the 2016 budget. in its report, the committee on budgets proposes that parliament take note of the draft, as submitted by the commission, which relates exclusively to the budgetary surplus of eur 1349 million for 2015, in accordance with article 18 of the financial regulation and the council's position thereon. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal because i fully agree with the need for member states to use the savings from the reduction in the gni-based payment obligation of eur 1349 million from the 2015 budget surplus carried over this year to finance their tasks related to the refugee crisis and to replenish funds for the local management of the crisis (africa fund, etc.). i also support the objective of regulating in a comprehensive and lasting way, in the context of the mff reform, the rules for carrying over to the next financial year and transferring between chapters surpluses resulting from under-utilisation of the budgetary envelope or from own resources.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to enter in the 2016 budget an amount of eur 1349 million in surplus from the 2015 financial year. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to parliament and the council the adoption of a directive on measures to ensure a uniformly high level of security of network and information systems across the union. parliament adopted its position on the proposal at first reading. the swedish parliament submitted a reasoned opinion that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the council took this into account when formulating its position at first reading. in its report, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection recommends that parliament endorse the position adopted by the council at first reading and declare that the directive has been adopted in accordance with the council's position. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a uniformly high level of network and information security across the union. the recommendation agrees with the council's position adopted at first reading, which highlights the vital role of network and information systems and services in our society. however, the magnitude, frequency and impact of security incidents are increasing, posing a serious threat to the functioning of network and information systems and thus to the union economy, as these systems, and in particular the internet, play a key role in facilitating the cross-border movement of goods, services and persons. due to their transnational nature, significant disruptions to those systems could affect individual member states or the union as a whole, but the existing capabilities of member states are not sufficient to guarantee a high level of security of network and information systems within the union. furthermore, the level of preparedness of member states is very different, resulting in unequal protection of consumers and businesses. in the absence of effective cooperation at present, i would like to follow the recommendation and encourage close cooperation between member states to achieve a uniformly high level of network and information security.
in writing. ‒ the related legislative act was adopted in accordance with the council's position. the proposal calls on the secretary-general, after having ascertained that all procedures have been duly followed, to sign the legislative act and, in agreement with the secretary-general of the council, to arrange for its publication in the official journal of the european union. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has environmental benefits, as consumers can compare products in terms of energy efficiency and make informed, cost-effective and environmentally-conscious purchasing decisions. however, the current labelling of energy consumption has become opaque and partly meaningless, mainly due to the overcrowding and diversification of the highest rated energy efficiency classes, which understandably confuses consumers. market surveillance in the member states also needs to be improved and would benefit from clearer and simpler management of product information and labelling schemes. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy-efficiency labelling, which aims to provide greater transparency for consumers and authorities on energy-related products placed on the union market, is therefore a welcome objective. the commission proposal replaces the current framework directive on energy labelling and introduces a mechanism for the reallocation of energy efficiency classes. the proposal also provides for a product database and defines the obligations of operators. in view of the above, i voted in favour of adopting the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has environmental benefits, providing consumers with relevant and comparable information on the energy performance of products anywhere in the union. this will help them to make environmentally conscious purchasing decisions, which is also good for saving money. however, the current labelling of energy consumption has become opaque and partly meaningless, mainly due to the overcrowding and diversification of the highest rated energy efficiency classes. the original aim of energy labelling was to provide citizens with information to help them understand the environmental impact and life cycle of different products. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has, however, revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed successfully, could lead to further significant energy savings. the commission proposal replaces the current framework directive on energy labelling and introduces a mechanism for the reallocation of energy efficiency classes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the re-design is intended to ensure that the calculation of the energy class reflects both the absolute performance (energy consumption) and the relative performance (energy efficiency, taking into account relevant characteristics of the product model such as size, volume and/or comfort) of the product.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has environmental benefits, providing consumers with relevant and comparable information on the energy performance of products anywhere in the union. this will help them to make environmentally conscious purchasing decisions, which is also good for saving money. however, the current labelling of energy consumption has become opaque and partly meaningless, mainly due to the overcrowding and diversification of the highest rated energy efficiency classes. the original aim of energy labelling was to provide citizens with information to help them understand the environmental impact and life cycle of different products. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has, however, revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed successfully, could lead to further significant energy savings. the current review also aims to facilitate the integration of upcoming ict developments such as the internet of things and others. the commission proposal replaces the current framework directive on energy labelling and introduces a mechanism for the reallocation of energy efficiency classes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the re-design is intended to ensure that the calculation of the energy class reflects both the absolute performance (energy consumption) and the relative performance (energy efficiency, taking into account relevant characteristics of the product model such as size, volume and/or comfort) of the product.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has environmental benefits, providing consumers with relevant and comparable information on the energy performance of products anywhere in the union. this will help them to make environmentally conscious purchasing decisions, which is also good for saving money. however, the current labelling of energy consumption has become opaque and partly meaningless, mainly due to the overcrowding and diversification of the highest rated energy efficiency classes. the original aim of energy labelling was to provide citizens with information to help them understand the environmental impact and life cycle of different products. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has, however, revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed successfully, could lead to further significant energy savings. the current review also aims to facilitate the integration of upcoming ict developments such as the internet of things and others. the commission proposal replaces the current framework directive on energy labelling and introduces a mechanism for the reallocation of energy efficiency classes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the re-design is intended to ensure that the calculation of the energy class reflects both the absolute performance (energy consumption) and the relative performance (energy efficiency, taking into account relevant characteristics of the product model such as size, volume and/or comfort) of the product. in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has environmental benefits, providing consumers with relevant and comparable information on the energy performance of products anywhere in the union. this will help them to make environmentally conscious purchasing decisions, which is also good for saving money. however, the current labelling of energy consumption has become opaque and partly meaningless, mainly due to the overcrowding and diversification of the highest rated energy efficiency classes. the original aim of energy labelling was to provide citizens with information to help them understand the environmental impact and life cycle of different products. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has, however, revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed successfully, could lead to further significant energy savings. the current review also aims to facilitate the integration of upcoming ict developments such as the internet of things and others. the commission proposal replaces the current framework directive on energy labelling and introduces a mechanism for the reallocation of energy efficiency classes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the re-design is intended to ensure that the calculation of the energy class reflects both the absolute performance (energy consumption) and the relative performance (energy efficiency, taking into account relevant characteristics of the product model such as size, volume and/or comfort) of the product.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has environmental benefits, providing consumers with relevant and comparable information on the energy performance of products anywhere in the union. this will help them to make environmentally conscious purchasing decisions, which is also good for saving money. however, the current labelling of energy consumption has become opaque and partly meaningless, mainly due to the overcrowding and diversification of the highest rated energy efficiency classes. the original aim of energy labelling was to provide citizens with information to help them understand the environmental impact and life cycle of different products. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has, however, revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed successfully, could lead to further significant energy savings. the current review also aims to facilitate the integration of upcoming ict developments such as the internet of things and others. the commission proposal replaces the current framework directive on energy labelling and introduces a mechanism for the reallocation of energy efficiency classes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the re-design is intended to ensure that the calculation of the energy class reflects both the absolute performance (energy consumption) and the relative performance (energy efficiency, taking into account relevant characteristics of the product model such as size, volume and/or comfort) of the product.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has environmental benefits, providing consumers with relevant and comparable information on the energy performance of products anywhere in the union. this will help them to make environmentally conscious purchasing decisions, which is also good for saving money. however, the current labelling of energy consumption has become opaque and partly meaningless, mainly due to the overcrowding and diversification of the highest rated energy efficiency classes. the original aim of energy labelling was to provide citizens with information to help them understand the environmental impact and life cycle of different products. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has, however, revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed successfully, could lead to further significant energy savings. the current review also aims to facilitate the integration of upcoming ict developments such as the internet of things and others. the commission proposal replaces the current framework directive on energy labelling and introduces a mechanism for the reallocation of energy efficiency classes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the re-design is intended to ensure that the calculation of the energy class reflects both the absolute performance (energy consumption) and the relative performance (energy efficiency, taking into account relevant characteristics of the product model such as size, volume and/or comfort) of the product.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has environmental benefits, providing consumers with relevant and comparable information on the energy performance of products anywhere in the union. this will help them to make environmentally conscious purchasing decisions, which is also good for saving money. however, the current labelling of energy consumption has become opaque and partly meaningless, mainly due to the overcrowding and diversification of the highest rated energy efficiency classes. the original aim of energy labelling was to provide citizens with information to help them understand the environmental impact and life cycle of different products. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has, however, revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed successfully, could lead to further significant energy savings. the commission proposal replaces the current framework directive on energy labelling and introduces a mechanism for the reallocation of energy efficiency classes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the re-design is intended to ensure that the calculation of the energy class reflects both the absolute performance (energy consumption) and the relative performance (energy efficiency, taking into account relevant characteristics of the product model such as size, volume and/or comfort) of the product.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the energy labelling directive is highly necessary as the current system is very confusing. the ep report in its final form does not enable consumers to take informed decisions – although the whole energy union is meant to be consumer-centric. greens pushed for changes that would allow existing loopholes to be closed and real and accurate energy consumption to be shown. key aspects were (a) a new a-to-g energy label applying to all labelled products by 2023 at the latest; (b) a central product database containing all necessary technical information for checks and controls; (c) one single label for each product group; (d) provisions for stricter requirements on larger appliances; and (e) energy consumption information to be displayed in advertisements for labelled products. as these aspects are not fully reflected in the report, greens could not support the text in the plenary, and we abstained in the vote. nevertheless we were very much in favour of giving the rapporteur a mandate to start negotiations with the council so that the revision of the directive is not delayed any further.
in writing. ‒ the commission has submitted a proposal to the parliament and the council for the adoption of a regulation establishing a framework for energy-efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu. the committee on industry, research and energy's report recommends that parliament adopt the commission's proposal with 84 amendments at first reading. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has environmental benefits, providing consumers with relevant and comparable information on the energy performance of products anywhere in the union. this will help them to make environmentally conscious purchasing decisions, which is also good for saving money. however, the current labelling of energy consumption has become opaque and partly meaningless, mainly due to the overcrowding and diversification of the highest rated energy efficiency classes. the original aim of energy labelling was to provide citizens with information to help them understand the environmental impact and life cycle of different products. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has, however, revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed successfully, could lead to further significant energy savings. the current review also aims to facilitate the integration of upcoming ict developments such as the internet of things and others. the commission proposal replaces the current framework directive on energy labelling and introduces a mechanism for the reallocation of energy efficiency classes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the re-design is intended to ensure that the calculation of the energy class reflects both the absolute performance (energy consumption) and the relative performance (energy efficiency, taking into account relevant characteristics of the product model such as size, volume and/or comfort) of the product.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that by increasing energy efficiency we can not only protect our environment but also our money. in energy efficiency labelling, the single label has become a well-known concept accepted at eu level. in recent years, the ag scale has been replaced by a more ambiguous system, and i therefore support making the system clearer. with the refinement of the categories, we can now return to the ag designation. the fact that the majority of society favours more energy-efficient systems is not in dispute. however, it should also be borne in mind that higher-quality products also mean higher prices. in regions where livelihoods are a problem, energy efficiency is not the primary consideration, consumers will buy cheaper products. in fact, this regulation is not mandatory for used products, which also creates a loophole. i believe that lower energy prices are not negligible in the light of the objective of eliminating energy poverty and should also be an incentive to increase energy efficiency, both from the production and the consumer side. without this, we will not achieve the minimum reduction target of 27% by 2030, or at least regional disparities will persist. i think that the communication and education campaign on energy efficiency, as outlined in the report, is a good tool, but i also think that we should encourage the promotion of local renewable energy production.
madam president, this report on the european border guard is not entirely clear. who do they want to protect europe's borders from, while we take turns accepting reports that say we should ultimately let everyone in and open our arms wide, give jobs, integration, housing, education and so on. well, we've had a lot of these reports in this plenary. so first, i think we need to clarify who we're letting in and who we're not letting in, who we need to guard the borders against. the second question is: when my country, hungary, protected its borders, closed its southern border, protected the schengen border, it became a black sheep in the eyes of the european union's mainstream, and since then we have been constantly - how to say - looked at badly. so, are we allowed to defend the border or not? do we need to protect europe's borders or not? or do they want to take away from sovereign states this task that is fundamentally a national responsibility?
in writing. ‒ by extending the tasks, powers and mandate of frontex, a european border and coast guard will be created to protect the eu's external borders, whether from migratory pressure or other unforeseen security threats, including international crime. the european border and coast guard shall consist of the european border and coast guard agency and the cooperation of the national authorities responsible for border management. the new agency will operate with 1500 border guards on standby, who can be deployed within seven days in any member state where the protection of the external borders is not adequately ensured. if a member state is unwilling to cooperate with the new agency, the reintroduction of internal border control may be a last resort. i voted in favour of the decision because the establishment of the guard is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens and ensure the internal security of the union.
in writing. ‒ the extension of frontex's tasks, powers and mandate will create a european border and coast guard to protect the eu's external borders from migration pressure and other unforeseen security threats, including international crime. the european border and coast guard shall consist of the european border and coast guard agency and the cooperation of the national authorities responsible for border management. the new agency will operate with 1500 border guards on standby, who can be deployed within seven days in any member state where the protection of the external borders is not adequately ensured. if a member state is unwilling to cooperate with the new agency, the reintroduction of internal border control may be a last resort. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i supported the decision because the establishment of the guard is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens and ensure the internal security of the union.
in writing. ‒ the extension of frontex's tasks, powers and mandate will create a european border and coast guard to protect the eu's external borders from migration pressure and other unforeseen security threats, including international crime. the european border and coast guard shall consist of the european border and coast guard agency and the cooperation of the national authorities responsible for border management. the new agency will operate with 1500 border guards on standby, who can be deployed within seven days in any member state where the protection of the external borders is not adequately ensured. if a member state is unwilling to cooperate with the new agency, the reintroduction of internal border control may be a last resort. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i supported the decision because the establishment of the guard is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens and ensure the internal security of the union.
in writing. ‒ the extension of frontex's tasks, powers and mandate will create a european border and coast guard to protect the eu's external borders, whether facing migratory pressure or other unforeseen security threats, including international crime. the european border and coast guard shall consist of the european border and coast guard agency and the cooperation of the national authorities responsible for border management. the new agency will operate with 1500 border guards on standby, who can be deployed within seven days in any member state where the protection of the external borders is not adequately ensured. if a member state is unwilling to cooperate with the new agency, the reintroduction of internal border control may be a last resort. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i supported the decision because the establishment of the guard is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens and ensure the internal security of the union.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted in favour of the report on the tasks of the european border and coast guard and i congratulate the rapporteur. in my view, the establishment of the guard is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens and ensure the internal security of the union. the extension of frontex's tasks, powers and mandate will create a european border and coast guard to protect the eu's external borders, whether facing migratory pressures or other unforeseen security threats, including international crime. the european border and coast guard shall consist of the european border and coast guard agency and the cooperation of the national authorities responsible for border management. the new agency will operate with 1500 border guards on standby, who can be deployed within seven days in any member state where the protection of the external borders is not adequately ensured. if a member state is unwilling to cooperate with the new agency, the reintroduction of internal border control may be a last resort.
in writing. ‒ by extending the tasks, powers and mandate of frontex, a european border and coast guard will be created to protect the eu's external borders, whether facing migratory pressure or other unforeseen security issues or threats from international crime. the european border and coast guard shall consist of the european border and coast guard agency and the cooperation of the national authorities responsible for border management. the new agency will operate with 1500 border guards on standby, who can be deployed within seven days in any member state where the protection of the external borders is not adequately ensured. if a member state is unwilling to cooperate with the new agency, internal border protection may be introduced as a last resort. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the decision because the establishment of the guard is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens and ensure the internal security of the union.
in writing. ‒ by extending the tasks, powers and mandate of frontex, a european border and coast guard will be created to protect the eu's external borders, whether from migratory pressure or other unforeseen security threats, including international crime. the european border and coast guard shall consist of the european border and coast guard agency and the cooperation of the national authorities responsible for border management. the new agency will operate with 1500 border guards on standby, who can be deployed within seven days in any member state where the protection of the external borders is not adequately ensured. if a member state is unwilling to cooperate with the new agency, internal border control may be reintroduced as a last resort. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i supported the decision because the establishment of the guard is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens and ensure the internal security of the union.
in writing. ‒ by extending the tasks, powers and mandate of frontex, a european border and coast guard will be created to protect the eu's external borders, whether from migratory pressure or other unforeseen security threats, including international crime. the european border and coast guard shall consist of the european border and coast guard agency and the cooperation of the national authorities responsible for border management. the new agency will operate with 1500 border guards on standby, who can be deployed within seven days in any member state where the protection of the external borders is not adequately ensured. if a member state is unwilling to cooperate with the new agency, the reintroduction of internal border control may be a last resort. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i supported the decision because the establishment of the guard is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens and ensure the internal security of the union.
in writing. the packaging is good, no doubt. the intention of the member states to build up their own border protection forces is unacceptable. they should even give up their decision-making powers. brexit shows that the majority of eu citizens are unlikely to want to go in that direction. in fact, fewer and fewer agree that the unrestrained influx of economic refugees should be lured to europe and accepted. there are more people in poverty in the world than there are people in europe. we cannot support them, we cannot give them jobs, because they are unskilled, and unemployment is already high in the eu. the eu has to be able to collect migrants from outside the eu, and the current coastguard has the capability to do so.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council to adopt a regulation on the european border and coast guard and repealing regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, regulation (ec) no 863/2007 and council decision 2005/267/ec. eight schengen states (belgium, denmark, germany, hungary, austria, slovenia, sweden and norway) reintroduced internal border controls in response to the secondary movement of irregular migrants, which they considered to be a serious threat to internal security and public policy. this suggests that the tools and mechanisms developed over time to ensure the effective functioning of the schengen area are insufficient, given the scale of the current migration crisis and the threat posed by terrorist activities. the commission therefore proposes the creation of a european border and coast guard (ebcg) concept, which would consist of a new european border and coast guard agency replacing frontex and a set of national authorities responsible for border management, including coast guards to the extent appropriate to their border control tasks. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament adopt the commission's proposal with more than 170 amendments at first reading. i was all the more pleased to vote for the draft because i am personally convinced that the schengen system can only be maintained if border protection, asylum and immigration policy are transferred from the competence of the member states to that of the community.
in writing. ‒ by extending the tasks, powers and mandate of frontex, a european border and coast guard will be created to protect the eu's external borders, whether from migratory pressure or other unforeseen security threats, including international crime. the european border and coast guard shall consist of the european border and coast guard agency and the cooperation of the national authorities responsible for border management. the new agency will operate with 1500 border guards on standby, who can be deployed within seven days in any member state where the protection of the external borders is not adequately ensured. if a member state is unwilling to cooperate with the new agency, the reintroduction of internal border control may be a last resort. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i supported the decision because the establishment of the guard is a concrete, practical step to protect our citizens and ensure the internal security of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion for a resolution because i believe it is a good example of how the eu can respond to a challenge of the scale of the refugee crisis only by a community approach based on unity and decisive action. the initiative is very timely, and it can be argued that the eu institutions are reaching too late for the obvious tool of strengthening european border controls, and have given too much time and space to european politicians who are ruthlessly exploiting the refugee crisis for their eu and anti-immigrant policies. as a hungarian representative, i am paying particular attention to the issue because the lack of european border protection is the first excuse the orbán government has used for its inhumane and humiliating measures against refugees, and while it has blocked a common solution in eu forums by all means, it is already presenting the planned strengthening of the eu border guard as a victory of its own preconception to its public opinion. i hope that the commission and the member states, with the support of the european parliament, will implement these measures without delay. at the same time, i believe it is necessary to emphasise the need to reject such anti-refugee provocations in the political and public communication of this important step.
in writing. ‒ the schengen area, an area without internal border controls for 26 countries within which people can move freely, is considered by many to be the greatest and most visible achievement of european integration. however, the very idea of no internal border controls is currently facing an unprecedented challenge: eight schengen states (belgium, denmark, germany, hungary, austria, slovenia, sweden and norway) have reintroduced internal border controls in response to the secondary movement of irregular migrants, which they consider to be a serious threat to internal security and public policy. i voted in favour of the document under consideration.
in writing. ‒ this is a gap-filling amendment to the legislation establishing the european maritime safety agency, adapted to the exceptional migration situation in the mediterranean over the last few years. one of the key elements of the amendment is the regulation of cooperation with the newly formed agency, the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency. the cooperation aims to make the activities of the three organisations more cost-effective by sharing their resources in a reasonable way, while assisting the competent bodies of the member states in the fulfilment of their very diverse maritime safety and coast guarding tasks. it is important, however, that the envisaged enhanced cooperation should not imply the withdrawal of any decision-making powers from any member state concerned. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal voted today is to build up eu cooperation between the european border and coast guard, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency, in order to provide a more efficient and cost-effective service to national authorities carrying out border protection activities. the proposal also aims to create and provide multifunctional services for national authorities in the organisation of the coastguard. the european maritime safety agency shall promote the protection of the external maritime borders of the european union, inter alia, by providing information and data exchange, surveillance and communication services using appropriate technologies.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal voted today is to build up eu cooperation between the european border and coast guard, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency, in order to provide a more efficient and cost-effective service to national authorities carrying out border protection activities. the proposal also aims to create and provide multifunctional services for national authorities in the organisation of the coastguard. the european maritime safety agency shall promote the protection of the external maritime borders of the european union, inter alia, by providing information and data exchange, surveillance and communication services using appropriate technologies. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal voted today is to build up eu cooperation between the european border and coast guard, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency, in order to provide a more efficient and cost-effective service to national authorities carrying out border protection activities. the proposal also aims to create and provide multifunctional services for national authorities in the organisation of the coastguard. the european maritime safety agency shall promote the protection of the external maritime borders of the european union, inter alia, by providing information and data exchange, surveillance and communication services using appropriate technologies.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal voted today is to build up eu cooperation between the european border and coast guard, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency, in order to provide a more efficient and cost-effective service to national authorities carrying out border protection activities. the proposal also aims to create and provide multifunctional services for national authorities in the organisation of the coastguard. the european maritime safety agency shall promote the protection of the external maritime borders of the european union, inter alia, by providing information and data exchange, surveillance and communication services using appropriate technologies.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal voted today is to build up eu cooperation between the european border and coast guard, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency, in order to provide a more efficient and cost-effective service to national authorities carrying out border protection activities. the proposal also aims to create and provide multifunctional services for national authorities in the organisation of the coastguard. the european maritime safety agency shall promote the protection of the external maritime borders of the european union, inter alia, by providing information and data exchange, surveillance and communication services using appropriate technologies.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal voted today is to build up eu cooperation between the european border and coast guard, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency, in order to provide a more efficient and cost-effective service to national authorities carrying out border protection activities. the proposal also aims to create and provide multifunctional services for national authorities in the organisation of the coastguard. the european maritime safety agency shall promote the protection of the external maritime borders of the european union, inter alia, by providing information and data exchange, surveillance and communication services using appropriate technologies.
in writing. the report strikes a good balance between expediency, efficient use of resources and promotion of cooperation, while ensuring that the member states' decision-making powers are not unduly restricted. in the current situation, such an approach is indispensable in the fulfilment of the very diverse tasks of maritime security and coast guard. it is appropriate to amend the legislative framework for the establishment of the european maritime safety agency.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council to amend regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing the european maritime safety agency. in its report, the committee on transport and tourism recommends adopting parliament's position at first reading in line with the commission's proposal. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal voted today is to build up eu cooperation between the european border and coast guard, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency, in order to provide a more efficient and cost-effective service to national authorities carrying out border protection activities. the proposal also aims to create and provide multifunctional services for national authorities in the organisation of the coastguard. the european maritime safety agency shall promote the protection of the external maritime borders of the european union, inter alia, by providing information and data exchange, surveillance and communication services using appropriate technologies.
in writing. ‒ the agency, in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, supports member states' authorities in their coast guard tasks at national and eu level and, where appropriate, at international level. i supported him with my vote.
madam president, there was no reason to vote against this report, since it is a purely technical report on the practical implementation of the european union's fisheries policy, and i would never have thought that i would have been moved to tears by such a technical report. why would i? because i was thinking about the english fishermen, those little fishermen who have basically decided, or largely decided, on this huge issue that we call brexit. i've seen the documentaries that have been made about them, telling tearfully how the european union has deprived them of their livelihood with this particular fisheries policy that has been imposed on them. i thought of the hungarian people who were deprived of their land, and of the small farmers who were deprived of their production and market access. i hope you're paying attention to these so-called little people now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of a european fisheries control agency, the aim of which is to coordinate monitoring, prevention and control activities at european level in order to improve knowledge of the marine environment. national authorities with coast guard functions are responsible for a number of tasks. this places a heavy burden on the authorities and i therefore agree with the aim of the proposal to coordinate the operations of the three european agencies (the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency) at sea and to share information useful for their actions. i am confident that they will be able to act in a joint and effective manner in the implementation of control, safety and surveillance operations, providing information, tools and training to national authorities. this cooperation is of paramount importance in the current migration situation to protect our external borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to align the tasks of the european fisheries control agency with those of the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency in the area of cooperation in the performance of coast guard tasks. as the report describes, national authorities with coast guard functions are responsible for a number of tasks in such diverse areas as defence, security, maritime rescue, border control, environmental protection and general law enforcement. there are currently 316 such national authorities in the european union. these numerous authorities work together through 70 different structures. as a consequence, the current system of cooperation is slow and fraught with shortcomings, namely the lack of information on the powers, responsibilities and capabilities of other authorities, the limited number of operational tools, the lack of interoperability between systems and tools, and the limited possibility of joint planning and joint operations. and that's why i think this situation is not sustainable. i welcome the fact that the proposal will lead to coordination of monitoring, prevention and control activities at european level to improve knowledge of the marine environment and to promote concerted and cost-effective action.
in writing. ‒ national authorities with coast guard functions are responsible for a wide range of tasks in areas as diverse as defence, security, maritime rescue, border control, environmental protection and general law enforcement. there are currently 316 such national authorities in the european union. these numerous authorities work together through 70 different structures. as a consequence, the current system of cooperation is slow and fragile. i supported the motion.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report, the report on the independence of the olaf secretariat. because i think the more elements that ensure olaf's complete independence, the more likely it is that the current situation will change, which is what the anti-fraud office is? that there is no qualitative change in the fact that every eu citizen who can tie his own shoes knows that a significant part of eu money is being looted through fraud and crime by various cronies, networks, pro-government circles, the economic elite and the political elite combined, and they use most of the eu money.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council that a regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 be adopted as regards the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the proposal aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat and thus ensure the more efficient functioning of the supervisory committee, as the european parliament has repeatedly asked the commission to do. under the proposed regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory board will no longer be provided by olaf but by the commission. the budget appropriations allocated to the secretariat of the supervisory committee shall be transferred from the current budget line to the commission budget line, and the establishment plan of olaf shall be transferred to the commission establishment plan. the proposed amendment therefore has no financial implications for the european budget. in its report, the committee on budgetary control recommends adopting parliament's position at first reading in line with the commission's proposal. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative amendment proposed in the report, which aims to give the secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee greater operational autonomy, thereby facilitating the commission's more efficient functioning. as a member of the european parliament, i will continue to support any initiative that strengthens olaf and makes its work more effective, given the widespread corruption in many member states - perhaps most of all in my own country - often at governmental level, linked to the misuse of eu funds, which puts olaf in a position to meet significant additional burdens and expectations in the short term.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat and thus to ensure the more efficient functioning of the supervisory committee. the european parliament has on several occasions asked the commission to take measures to strengthen the independent functioning of the secretariat of the supervisory committee, for example in its report on the 2013 discharge procedure or in its resolution on the 2014 annual report of the supervisory committee of olaf. i was supportive.
madam president, it is no wonder that certain items of this particular multiannual budget have to be reconsidered, and it is no wonder that, among other things, and most of all, the expenditure framework relating to migration has been exhausted. there's a crisis here, and we need to rethink the whole thing, and we need to pump more money into the story. it's not just a financial crisis, but this financial crisis is also a crisis of legitimacy, a crisis of democracy. who decides that it is necessary to spend such huge sums on migration that is not supported by the majority of eu citizens, when european countries are full of poor europeans?
in writing. ‒ in order to protect cohesion funds and rural development funds, the report highlights that reductions in funds previously allocated to member states are legally excluded from the review. the report adds that the direct payments of the cap should not be affected by the process. this ensured that the eu funds we had previously sought could not be reduced by the review and that the hungarian farmers were also granted subsidies. the report recommends raising the ceilings on payment levels to avoid a 'liquidity' problem that occurred in the previous financial framework, i.e. to have sufficient resources to pay the cohesion invoices that come at the end of the cycle. in the plenary vote, despite the unanimous opposition of the mps of the people's party, parliament adopted a new initiative of the flawed socialist-liberal immigration policy, which is eerily similar to the proposals formulated by george soros. the socialists and liberals would introduce a budgetary mechanism that would impose fines on member states that do not accept immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect cohesion funds and rural development funds, the report highlights that reductions in funds previously allocated to member states are legally excluded from the review. the report adds that the direct payments of the cap should not be affected by the process. this ensured that the eu funds sought by the orbán government could not be reduced by the review and that the subsidies of hungarian farmers were also secured. the report recommends raising the ceilings on the payment levels to avoid a 'liquidity' problem that occurred in the previous financial framework, i.e. to have sufficient resources to pay the cohesion invoices that come at the end of the cycle. in the plenary vote, despite the unanimous opposition of the mps of the people's party, the parliament adopted a new initiative of the flawed socialist-liberal immigration policy, which is eerily similar to the proposals formulated by george soros. the socialists and liberals would introduce a budgetary mechanism that would impose fines on member states that do not accept immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect cohesion funds and rural development funds, the report highlights that reductions in funds previously allocated to member states are legally excluded from the review. the report adds that the direct payments of the cap should not be affected by the process. this ensured that the eu funds sought by the orbán government could not be reduced by the review and that the subsidies of hungarian farmers were also secured. the report recommends raising the ceilings on the payment levels to avoid a 'liquidity' problem that occurred in the previous financial framework, i.e. to have sufficient resources to pay the cohesion invoices that come at the end of the cycle. in the plenary vote, despite the unanimous opposition of the mps of the people's party, the parliament adopted a new initiative of the flawed socialist-liberal immigration policy, which is eerily similar to the proposals formulated by george soros. the socialists and liberals would introduce a budgetary mechanism that would impose fines on member states that do not accept immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. in order to protect cohesion funds and rural development funds, the report highlights that reductions in funds previously allocated to member states are legally excluded from the review. the report adds that the direct payments of the cap should not be affected by the process. this ensured that the eu funds sought by the orbán government could not be reduced by the review and that the subsidies of hungarian farmers were also secured. the report recommends raising the ceilings on the payment levels to avoid a 'liquidity' problem that occurred in the previous financial framework, i.e. to have sufficient resources to pay the cohesion invoices that come at the end of the cycle. in the plenary vote, despite the unanimous opposition of the mps of the people's party, parliament adopted a new initiative of the flawed socialist-liberal immigration policy, which is eerily similar to the proposals formulated by george soros. the socialists and liberals would introduce a budgetary mechanism that would impose fines on member states that do not accept immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect cohesion funds and rural development funds, the report highlights that reductions in funds previously allocated to member states are legally excluded from the review. the report adds that the direct payments of the cap should not be affected by the process. this ensured that the eu funds sought by the orbán government could not be reduced by the review and that the subsidies of hungarian farmers were also secured. the report recommends raising the ceilings on the payment levels to avoid a 'liquidity' problem that occurred in the previous financial framework, i.e. to have sufficient resources to pay the cohesion invoices that come at the end of the cycle. in the plenary vote, despite the unanimous opposition of the mps of the people's party, parliament adopted a new initiative of the flawed socialist-liberal immigration policy, which is eerily similar to the proposals formulated by george soros. the socialists and liberals would introduce a budgetary mechanism that would impose fines on member states that do not accept immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect cohesion funds and rural development funds, the report highlights that reductions in funds previously allocated to member states are legally excluded from the review. the report adds that the direct payments of the cap should not be affected by the process. this ensured that the eu funds sought by the orbán government could not be reduced by the review and also ensured support for hungarian farmers. the report recommends raising the ceilings on payment levels to avoid a 'liquidity' problem that occurred in the previous financial framework, i.e. to have sufficient resources to pay the cohesion invoices that arrive at the end of the cycle. in the plenary vote, despite the unanimous opposition of the mps of the people's party, parliament adopted a new initiative of the flawed socialist-liberal immigration policy similar to the proposals formulated by george soros. the socialists and liberals would introduce a budgetary mechanism that would impose fines on member states that do not accept immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect cohesion funds and rural development funds, the report highlights that reductions in funds previously allocated to member states are legally excluded from the review. the report adds that the direct payments of the cap should not be affected by the process. this ensured that the eu funds sought by the orbán government could not be reduced by the review and that the subsidies of hungarian farmers were also secured. the report recommends raising the ceilings on the payment levels to avoid a 'liquidity' problem that occurred in the previous financial framework, i.e. to have sufficient resources to pay the cohesion invoices that come at the end of the cycle. in the plenary vote, despite the unanimous opposition of the mps of the people's party, parliament adopted a new initiative of the flawed socialist-liberal immigration policy, which is eerily similar to the proposals formulated by george soros. the socialists and liberals would introduce a budgetary mechanism that would impose fines on member states that do not accept immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. both the report and the eu's monetary policy reflect a neoliberal approach to economic policy that has proven to be a dead end. for most eu citizens, at least, there are, of course, many who see canaan as the land of canaan. it must be acknowledged that the report is generally correct in identifying the problems and in some cases in identifying the desired objectives. however, experience so far has shown that implementation is more likely to take place at the level of communication. in today's virtualized world, that's enough for many people.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgets has tabled a proposal for a parliament resolution on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020. the current cfp has just been adopted for the first time under the new provisions of the lisbon treaty. in order to ensure the democratic legitimacy of the new financial framework and to enable the new commission and the newly elected parliament to reaffirm and assess the political and budgetary priorities of the union, parliament inserted in the regulation a specific article on the mandatory and comprehensive review and revision of the cap. the commission will therefore submit its mandatory review of the functioning of the tpp before the end of 2016. the draft resolution aims to draw attention, before the commission's proposal is submitted, to the key developments and challenges which, in parliament's view, the commission will have to face in any event during the review. these include the migration and refugee crisis, low levels of investment, youth unemployment, internal security, crises in the agricultural sector, environmental challenges, economic, social and territorial cohesion, pressures on development and neighbourhood policies, the mainstreaming of gender equality and pay gaps. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 revision of the mff should take into account a number of serious crises and new policy initiatives and their budgetary implications that were not anticipated when the mff was adopted. i voted in favour of it, as the s&d group had done.
in writing. the report is particularly interesting in that it refers to information from the international association of investigative journalists, specifically the luxleaks scandal. however, no official of the european commission is mentioned in the material. year after year, we try to allocate the eu budget somehow, at the cost of tough compromises, when experts estimate that about seven times that amount, about €1 trillion, is lost to tax havens through tax avoidance. moreover, the largest tax havens are under the jurisdiction of european and even eu countries. in the light of the above, it is perhaps not too much to say that the commission's fight against tax evasion is somewhat light. the problem isn't with the report.
in writing. ‒ on 2 december 2015, the european parliament adopted a decision setting up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe 2). the special committee submitted its report after the expiry of its six-month mandate. the report draws conclusions and makes recommendations against tax fraud and tax evasion, estimated by the commission at eur 1 trillion per year, and aggressive tax planning. it regrets, however, that the commission and the council continue to refuse to agree to the proposal for a regulation laying down detailed provisions governing the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry, and that this is why parliament's special committees and committees of inquiry still lack sufficient powers, such as the right to call witnesses or to exercise access to documents, as compared to similar committees of the parliaments of the member states and the us congress. it also objects to the fact that the council has recently made several comprehensive ex ante findings in tax matters without taking into account or even awaiting the opinion of the european parliament. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on conditional tax rulings. i welcome the report produced by the taxe ii special committee, which makes a number of recommendations to restore tax justice in europe. i particularly welcome the fact that the priorities set out by the s&d group, such as the establishment of a list of tax havens, the establishment of a code of conduct for banks, financial intermediaries and tax advisers, or the provision of greater protection for whistleblowers in the public interest, have all received broad support. i also support the report's call for the commission to develop a common consolidated corporate tax base system as early as 2016, as its introduction would help to address the problems of double taxation and transfer pricing within consolidated companies within the eu. like the rapporteurs, i regret that the taxe ii committee has not been fully supported in its investigations and that many member states have still not succeeded in adopting certain regulations to prevent aggressive tax planning. in line with the report, i urge member states to create the necessary legal framework to be able to act more effectively against tax fraud, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning.
in writing. ‒ the information released by the international consortium of investigative journalists (icij), the 'panama papers' and the 'luxleaks' revealed the urgent need for the eu and its member states to act against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. i supported him with my vote.
madam president, i was shocked to read the report on the state of play of the horizon programme, and i was shocked, not by the bad feelings that these reports usually have, but by the fact that this is a fantastic research programme, that is to say, the research opportunities among the leading researchers, research groups in the european union and the financial support for this is actually a fantastic thing, how many lives can be saved by the medical research, cancer research and other things that are being carried out, which is what this horizon programme is all about. and then i asked myself, why am i still an eu sceptic, why am i not happy with this whole eu story as it is? well, because this kind of cooperation doesn't require a huge european bureaucracy, which is in many ways cruel, inhuman, like the eu.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a joint resolution underlines that cohesion policy will remain the main eu instrument for bringing the eu closer to its citizens, covering all regions, for investment in the real economy in the 2014-2020 funding period. it is also an expression of european solidarity, as it promotes growth and prosperity and reduces economic, social and territorial inequalities, which have been exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis. the results-oriented approach in cohesion policy needs to be further strengthened and there is an urgent need to increase synergies with union policies on competitiveness, in particular in the areas of research and development, renewable energy and smes. more resources would be needed to achieve the objectives mentioned, failing which the instruments proposed in the motion would help to make efficient use of them.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution stresses that the common strategic framework has further strengthened the link between cohesion policies and other eu support programmes and initiatives (horizon 2020, innovation union, digital single market, energy union). the proposal is welcome because the proper identification and exploitation of synergies will make a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. there is a need to increase synergies with union competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, given the increasing use of union research and development outputs. it is important to create new, high-quality jobs and to preserve existing jobs, as well as to promote the green economy. these synergies need to be built in at the strategic planning stage and therefore require choices and planning from the outset to identify and create opportunities, both at the regional and member state level. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution stresses that the common strategic framework has further strengthened the link between cohesion policies and other eu support programmes and initiatives (horizon 2020, innovation union, digital single market, energy union). the proposal is welcome because the proper identification and exploitation of synergies will make a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. there is a need to increase synergies with union competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, given the increasing use of union research and development outputs. it is important to create new, high-quality jobs and to preserve existing jobs and to promote a green economy. these synergies need to be built in at the strategic planning stage and therefore require choices and planning from the outset to identify and create opportunities, both at the regional and member state level.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution stresses that the common strategic framework has further strengthened the link between cohesion policies and other eu support programmes and initiatives (horizon 2020, innovation union, digital single market, energy union). the proposal is welcome because the proper identification and exploitation of synergies will make a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. there is a need to increase synergies with union competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, given the increasing use of union research and development outputs. it is important to create new, high-quality jobs and to preserve existing jobs and to promote a green economy. these synergies need to be built in at the strategic planning stage and therefore require choices and planning from the outset to identify and create opportunities, both at the regional and member state level. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution stresses that the common strategic framework has further strengthened the link between cohesion policies and other eu support programmes and initiatives (horizon 2020, innovation union, digital single market, energy union). the proposal is welcome because the proper identification and exploitation of synergies will make a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. there is a need to increase synergies with union competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, given the increasing use of union research and development outputs. it is important to create new, high-quality jobs and to preserve existing jobs and to promote a green economy. these synergies need to be built in at the strategic planning stage and therefore require choices and planning from the outset to identify and create opportunities, both at the regional and member state level.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution stresses that the common strategic framework has further strengthened the link between cohesion policies and other eu support programmes and initiatives (horizon 2020, innovation union, digital single market, energy union). the proposal is welcome because the proper identification and exploitation of synergies will make a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. there is a need to increase synergies with union competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, given the increasing use of union research and development outputs. it is important to create new, high-quality jobs and to preserve existing jobs and to promote a green economy. these synergies need to be built in at the strategic planning stage and therefore require choices and planning from the outset to identify and create opportunities, both at the regional and member state level.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution stresses that the common strategic framework has further strengthened the link between cohesion policies and other eu support programmes and initiatives (horizon 2020, innovation union, digital single market, energy union). the proposal is welcome because the proper identification and exploitation of synergies will make a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. there is a need to increase synergies with union competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, given the increasing use of union research and development outputs. it is important to create new, high-quality jobs and to preserve existing jobs and to promote a green economy. these synergies need to be built in at the strategic planning stage and therefore require choices and planning from the outset to identify and create opportunities, both at the regional and member state level.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution stresses that the common strategic framework has further strengthened the link between cohesion policies and other eu support programmes and initiatives (horizon 2020, innovation union, digital single market, energy union). the proposal is welcome because the proper identification and exploitation of synergies will make a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. there is a need to increase synergies with union competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, given the increasing use of union research and development outputs. it is important to create new, high-quality jobs and to preserve existing jobs and to promote a green economy. these synergies need to be built in at the strategic planning stage and therefore require choices and planning from the outset to identify and create opportunities, both at the regional and member state level.
in writing. cohesion policy would be designed to express european solidarity, increase prosperity, reduce inequalities and mitigate the effects of the economic and financial crisis. it also aims to promote research and development and to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which provide the majority of jobs in the union. in practice, however, this is not so smoothly done, with a large proportion of the aid allocated to well-defined interests, which are not necessarily the responsibility of the eu. resources are scarce, but you have to cook with what you have.
in writing. ‒ the verts/ale, ecr, efdd, alde and gue/ngl groups tabled a joint motion for a resolution on this subject, the ppe and s&d groups each on their own. these groups, with the exception of gue/ngl, reached an agreement and adopted a joint compromise motion. i voted for that.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution stresses that the common strategic framework has further strengthened the link between cohesion policies and other eu support programmes and initiatives (horizon 2020, innovation union, digital single market, energy union). the proposal is welcome because the proper identification and exploitation of synergies will make a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. there is a need to increase synergies with union competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, given the increasing use of union research and development outputs. it is important to create new, high-quality jobs and to preserve existing jobs and to promote a green economy. these synergies need to be built in at the strategic planning stage and therefore require choices and planning from the outset to identify and create opportunities, both at the regional and member state level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i agree that cohesion policy should be fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this required a common strategic framework that coordinates the european regional development fund, the european social and cohesion funds and provides for wider coordination with the rural development and maritime and fisheries sector funds. the common strategic framework introduced by the common provisions regulation further strengthened the links between cohesion policy and other union policies, support programmes and initiatives. i have only one practical problem with this approach: cohesion policy provides a certain degree of flexibility, so that development funds placed under the competence of the member states can be misused by certain governments. nevertheless, in the 2014-2020 funding period, cohesion policy remains the main eu instrument to bring the eu closer to its citizens, covering all regions, for investment in the real economy, but also an expression of european solidarity, as it broadens growth and prosperity and reduces economic, social and territorial inequalities exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ the common strategic framework introduced by the common provisions regulation has further strengthened the links between cohesion policy and other eu policies, support programmes and initiatives, and thus, through all its instruments and objectives, makes a significant contribution to strengthening the single market and achieving the europe 2020 objectives. i voted in favour of the s&d resolution.
madam president, mr timmermans presented today your programme, the european commission's programme for 2017, in the sense that the time has come for people in europe to finally be in control of their own lives, to be the shapers of their own lives. well, i'm very curious to know how, or if he meant it, because when they try to speak their mind, they are - increasingly in the west, by the way - thrown out of their jobs in their own member states. the only place to discuss immigration is in the kitchen, in the family. and here, they constantly vilify, they call populist, extremist, xenophobic, anyone who doesn't applaud enthusiastically.
in writing. ‒ i agree with a significant part of the objectives set out in the report, but i did not vote in favour of the resolution because the hungarian people's party group has consistently refused to vote in favour of texts that also contain a reference to support for the eu's resettlement policy.
in writing. ‒ although i agree with a significant part of the objectives it sets out, i did not vote in favour of the resolution because the hungarian people's party group has consistently refused to vote in favour of texts that also contain a reference to support for the eu's resettlement policy.
in writing. ‒ although i agree with a significant part of the objectives it sets out, i did not vote in favour of the resolution because the hungarian people's party group has consistently refused to vote in favour of texts that also contain a reference to support for the eu's resettlement policy.
in writing. ‒ although i agree with a significant part of the objectives it sets out, i did not vote in favour of the resolution because the hungarian people's party group has consistently refused to vote in favour of texts that also contain a reference to support for the eu's resettlement policy.
in writing. ‒ although i agree with a significant part of the objectives it sets out, i did not vote in favour of the resolution because the hungarian people's party group has consistently refused to vote in favour of texts that also contain a reference to support for the eu's resettlement policy.
in writing. ‒ although i agree with a significant part of the objectives it sets out, i did not vote in favour of the resolution because the hungarian people's party group has consistently refused to vote in favour of texts that also contain a reference to support for the eu's resettlement policy.
in writing. ‒ although i agree with a significant part of the objectives it sets out, i did not vote in favour of the resolution because the hungarian people's party group has consistently refused to vote in favour of texts that also contain a reference to support for the eu's resettlement policy.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the alde, gue/ngl, ppe, s&d, verts/ale, efdd and ecr groups. among them, the alde, ppe and s&d groups reached an agreement and adopted a joint compromise proposal. that's what i voted for.
in writing. ‒ in order not to contradict myself due to my duty as vice-president, in cases where the faction votes differently from the hungarian representatives in the roll-call votes, i will not participate directly in the vote. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the european commission's work plan for next year to be approved by parliament, especially given that it gives due weight to the most pressing challenges facing the eu, such as the refugee crisis and the transformation of migration policy. i also see a number of shortcomings in the work plan and i hope that, following the debate in parliament, the commission will make the necessary corrections in its practical work. for example, as a socialist representative, i regret that in the chapter 'working and living conditions for european citizens' of the work plan i do not see a concrete direction for action by the commission with regard to the implementation of social europe, whereas the most effective response to the current challenges for the eu is to be found in the social field which most directly affects the european citizen. in particular, in my experience of the deterioration of democratic relations in europe, i agree with the commission's intention to improve, as expressed in the programme's chapter 'fundamental rights and strengthening democracy'. the commission has so far been unable to effectively counter anti-european, anti-democratic political rhetoric and actions at governmental level in some member states, for example in hungary and, subsequently, in poland. the commission's 2017 programme should, in my view, reflect a greater commitment to the union's values, the restoration and protection of european democracy and fundamental rights, for which it can count on the support of the ep.
in writing. ‒ the recent economic recovery in europe has been limited and unbalanced, with unacceptable levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality in many regions of the union, and with younger generations facing a serious lack of prospects. the union should therefore work towards a dynamic and inclusive labour market embedded in the european model of a social market economy, improving citizens' living and working conditions and enabling fair labour mobility. i voted in favour of the s&d resolution.
in writing. ‒ the ban on whaling was imposed in 1986 by a decision of the international whaling commission. this measure was necessary because of the growing risk of extinction of the species. but japan, for almost incomprehensible reasons, has consistently ignored this and continued to hunt whales on pseudoscientific grounds - not sparing pregnant females. japan (and a few other countries) only temporarily abandoned the practice in 2014, despite continued international outrage and a damning ruling by the international court of justice. in 2015, he announced that he would continue to kill whales. the motion for a resolution tabled by each group condemns japan's conduct on this issue with due responsibility and firmness, and the consolidated joint motion properly integrates the resolutions of the groups, as a consensus has been reached on this issue. i voted yes to the resolution, of course.
in writing. ‒ on 31 march 2014 the un’s international court of justice – in its legally binding decision – ruled that japan’s state-subsidised whale-hunting in the southern ocean did not fall within the scope of scientific research and therefore was considered illegal. in spite of the ruling, japan has recently resumed whaling. following the suggestion of greenpeace, activism from within japan should be combined with international pressure. therefore, i voted in favour of the resolution of the european parliament which stands up against this outdated and illegal practice.
in writing. ‒ on this subject, the gue/ngl, efdd and verts/ale groups tabled a joint motion for a resolution of the european parliament, the ppe, s&d, ecr and alde each on their own. the groups reached an agreement and adopted a joint compromise motion. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution because i do not think it is timely to restart whaling in japan. based on the data that we have, i think that this would threaten biodiversity. the resolution was prompted by the fact that in november 2015 the japanese fisheries agency informed the international whaling commission that it would resume whaling under the new scientific research whaling programme. this is a concern because in order to prevent the extinction of whale stocks and to allow them to recover, the international whaling commission (iwc) adopted a moratorium on all commercial whaling in 1982, which is still in force. the moratorium allows for an exception only for a limited number of whales hunted for strictly scientific purposes, known as 'special permit whaling'. the resolution describes how commercial whaling continues in many countries despite the moratorium, with japan for example having been conducting such whaling under special permits for decades. the commission has also provided information on the number of vessels that have been involved in the illegal whaling activities in the area of the north sea. that is why i am not going to open the possibility of whaling, and i stress that this debate could extend to the eu-japan trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ the proposal strongly supports the maintenance of a general moratorium on commercial whaling and a ban on international trade in whale products, while urging the abolition of unjustified 'scientific whaling' and supporting the designation of large ocean and marine areas as sanctuaries where all whaling is prohibited indefinitely. i voted in favour of the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ the efdd group, ecr, alde and verts/ale group jointly objected to the commission delegated decision of 15 april 2016 amending annex iii to decision no 466/2014/eu of the european parliament and of the council on a union guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing operations supporting investment projects outside the union, as regards belarus. i voted for the joint motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu guarantee to belarus by the european investment bank. the commission has assessed the current political, economic, social and environmental situation in belarus and has concluded that the relaxation of the union's restrictive approach towards belarus is duly justified and that the eib financing covered by the union guarantee is therefore available to belarus. i agree with the motion opposing the granting of this guarantee to belarus. in my view, the commission's assessment should have focused more on the fact that belarus remains a centralised and autocratic state with a strict control by the president in terms of its internal politics, and that belarus is the only country in europe that still applies the death penalty. the integrity of the recent elections has been called into question by significant issues and the situation of human rights and democracy raises further serious concerns, in particular with regard to freedom of assembly and association, and freedom of expression and freedom of the media. if progress has been made in the last two years, it is not to the extent that it outweighs the above-mentioned reservations. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the guarantee was granted to the beneficiaries.
in writing. a short but important resolution was adopted, which obliges the commission to submit new material. the objective to achieve a fair burden-sharing is indeed that shareholders and creditors should contribute at least 8% of the total liabilities, including the guarantee capital, to cover any losses and to any recapitalisation that may be necessary. the other comments are also valid.
in writing. ‒ commission delegated regulation of 23 may 2016 supplementing directive 2014/59/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for determining the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities, submitted by the verts/ale group. i voted for the joint motion.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution objecting to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying criteria on how to establish the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. pursuant to regulation (eu) no 1093/2010, the commission approved on 17 december 2015, with amendments, the draft regulatory technical standards previously submitted by the european banking authority (eba). eba expressed its disagreement with some of the proposed amendments to the commission's final draft regulatory technical standards. as i agree with the commission's amendments to the draft standards, i therefore consider that there is no need for the commission to submit a new, revised proposal. for this reason, i could not support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 9 february 2016, eba issued an opinion to the commission expressing its disagreement with some of the proposed amendments to the eba's final draft regulatory technical standards on how to set minimum requirements for write-offs and convertible liabilities. i agreed with and followed the s&d position on the present objection.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, i would like to join you in the words of appreciation that you addressed to mrs mogherini and to echo what you have said. the refugee crisis has shown us just how vulnerable europe can be in terms of security when common positions are weakened. what responsibility do you see, do you see the possibility of not only parliament but also certain political groups putting pressure on those countries which, like viktor orbán, are constantly trying to sing out of this unity?
mr president, i would like to thank the high representative for the global strategy paper. i come from academia so i am fully aware that a good paper raises as many good questions as it solves and certainly, in this respect, the global strategy is a very good paper. i for one do not believe that defence and security integration can save the union. what i believe is that social union and a transfer union can save the union. however, disunity in defence and security matters might easily break the union and therefore it is vital that we have this global strategy and that we have a broad agreement on what we want to achieve as a unified power. the most important requirements for any power – be it soft or hard power – are an underlying commitment and an underlying common effort. without that credible commitment we are going to fail. we very much welcome the commitment evident in the paper with regard to enlargement. this is what we need. this is what we need to offer to those who look to europe.
mr president, dear ms. mogherini, we have a sort of ritual here in this room: i always ask you some unpleasant questions about the relationship between the islamic state, the islamic state and the european union, and you do not carefully answer them. then, in accordance with the rules, i'll put the question in writing, and then sooner or later, you'll have to answer. well, let's run for it then, as usual. what has the european union learned, with its intelligence services and other tools, with the help of our good friend the united states, and with the help of other allies, about who created the islamic state, who financed them, who supplied them with weapons, who bought oil from them, who bought art from them, how the european union sanctions those states and those companies that support the terrorist islamic state?
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, you and others use a tone which i think is correct when you talk about the european attitude. but do you have any doubt that in the last year and a half europe has lost much of its credibility in terms of human rights, or do you think that we are still at the forefront of human rights?
mr president, i really do highly appreciate the efforts of the high representative in promoting human rights in various parts of the globe and, madam high representative, we very much welcome your special engagement on freedom of religion that showed in the last year. we have ensured that this important issue gets the attention it deserves and believe that the recently appointed special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion outside the eu, mr figeľ, will notably contribute to common actions and fully encourage the commission to consequently bring forward this engagement. let me point out some suggestions as well. firstly, the institution for development cooperation must recognise the enormous work done by the churches and their organisations in humanitarian relief worldwide. also regarding development cooperation, the eu cannot make compromises in countries where human rights such as religious freedom are in danger. europe must show zero tolerance towards oppressive regimes in development agreements. secondly, in early february parliament passed an historic decision on the recognition of genocide against religious minorities by daesh. naming the crime by its true legal name is the first step to really addressing these atrocities by radicals. thirdly and finally, protection of religious minorities is the major security factor in the middle east. we must recognise the geostrategic importance of the presence of christians and other minorities. they must contribute to the social balance of the countries, including in the future.
mr president, my esteemed officer, my esteemed fellow members of parliament! in his speech, mr katainen referred to sectoral rules, measures taken by the union in the past, and national regulations. just last wednesday, i was in luxembourg for the sentencing of antoine deltour, and the verdict that was delivered is the clearest indication that what you have been talking about, commissioner, is no longer suitable for the protection of whistleblowers. the fact that existing european and national regulations are not able to protect whistleblowers in the public interest is evidence of the need for a single european level of regulation that is more effective and stronger than the current one. and it also makes it clear that we have no more time. the judgment, which was delivered in luxembourg, discourages whistleblowers in the public interest from disclosing information that is in the interest of european citizens and european societies. to prevent this from happening and to protect the interests of european citizens, urgent action by the commission is needed.
in writing. youth health cannot be sacrificed to economic interests. energy drinks with high sugar and caffeine content must not be allowed to lure young people with positive messages, while the increasing prevalence of childhood obesity is a serious public health problem in europe. studies show that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children already regularly consume energy drinks, which can contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 87 milligrams of caffeine per pack. moreover, according to the warning on the label of the products, their consumption is not recommended at all for children and pregnant women. the european commission is considering whether these drinks could be marketed throughout europe with labels claiming that they increase alertness and have a positive effect on concentration. the european food safety authority has found the scientific basis of these claims to be established. although the legal conditions have been met, we sense that something is wrong. the intention of the legislator in regulating health claims made on foods was not to advertise products but to provide consumers with adequate information. but with children and adolescents, we have a greater responsibility. contradictory messages cannot make drinks more popular, even if they are only recommended in limited quantities for adults.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, distinguished colleagues, distinguished commissioner! this report is historic because the eu ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2010, the first of several un conventions. in 2015, we reached the point where the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities sent the eu final conclusions with strong recommendations. today, the european parliament is debating and voting on this issue. i was able to work very well with the rapporteur on behalf of the european people's party. the report points out that the scope of the crpd principles goes far beyond the issue of discrimination. i would like to draw attention to the importance of digital technologies, as they, including assistive technologies, facilitate social inclusion for people with disabilities. i regret that a disproportionate number of people with disabilities in europe do not yet have access to the internet and are therefore deprived of information and opportunities. the unemployment rate of persons with disabilities, especially women, is exceptionally high and it is therefore necessary to go beyond sheltered employment and to create employment conditions for persons with disabilities that introduce them to the open labour market. finally, on education: i believe that equal opportunities can only be achieved if the conditions for inclusive education are ensured at all levels of education, including the different types of education and training, and also lifelong learning, i.e. in all areas. if we provide these, then we can really make a difference. that's what we're all working for.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam representative, i would like to highlight two elements of your remarks. one is that you mentioned that this is the first convention to which the european union has referred as a party and to future legislation. i ask you, do you see the possibility of turning our attention to the area of criminal law, that is, of punishing violence against people with disabilities in a similar way throughout europe?
it's a two-card draw. madam representative, we have discussed this several times in the preparatory sessions and this question has been raised several times, so i would like to ask the plenary this question: does the un convention say that the rights of persons with disabilities should be approached on the basis of human rights and that we should look at what abilities they have and develop them, rather than looking at what they lack? do you agree with that?
in writing. i believe that awareness-raising activities on the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities should be continued, prejudices should be combated and a better understanding of all persons with disabilities should be promoted, so that decisions can be taken on the basis of their real needs. i support initiatives to raise awareness of the difficulties experienced by people with disabilities and to increase awareness of the opportunities and contributions of people with disabilities, including through special education programmes in schools. i would like to emphasize that the significance of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is fundamentally that it changes cultural attitudes, recognizing that disability is not in the person, but that the social and economic environment creates barriers for people.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation of persons with albinism in africa and in particular in malawi (2016/2807 ((rsp)).
madam high representative, my colleagues have said that it would be good to see improvements; there are improvements in terms of labour law, but there are no improvements in terms of human rights. what can we do? we're waiting for your answer.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 7 july 2016. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
madam president, please stop the clock, and this is a procedural request, to ask our dear colleagues to leave, because in such a mess and noise, you can't make speeches. it's an insult to our constituents. so i ask you to ask them to go out and when normal conditions are established, worthy of parliament, then we will speak up if possible.
madam president, perhaps there was a misunderstanding. i made an earlier point of order asking you to please call on the noisy members who had nothing to do in this chamber to leave the room so that we can speak decently. then you took the floor away from me and did not give it back so that i could make my explanation of vote. so please allow me to make my explanation of vote, as i was assigned to do. elnök asszony, a legnagyobb pozitívuma ennek a jelentésnek az a nagyon ígéretes tény volt, hogy az ensz 71. ülésszakán szeptemberben úgy néz ki, paradigmaváltás lesz a migráció kérdésében. legalábbis ezt vetíti elő a migrációról szóló rész a 11. oldalon ab) pontban. azt mondja, hogy felhívja az európai unió szerveit, hogy támogassák „az ensz-közgyűlés 2016. szeptember 19-ére tervezett, a menekültek és migránsok jelentős mértékű vándorlásának kérdését megvitató, magas szintű plenáris ülését,” – most jön a lényeg – „és szorgalmazza, hogy az ülésen a migráció alapvető okaival foglalkozzanak, kiemelt hangsúlyt helyezve a szegénység felszámolására, valamint az emberi jogok érvényesítésére és a stabilitásra”. tehát végre úgy tűnik, elkezdenek a gyökérokokkal foglalkozni, és nem csupán a következményekkel, és az európai kapuk tágra nyitásával a migránsok előtt.
in writing. ‒ i have accepted the recommendations of the european parliament to the european council on the 71st session of the united nations. in my group's view, in the light of violent conflicts in its immediate neighbourhood, europe is increasingly exposed to hybrid warfare, cyberterrorism and unprecedented waves of migrants. the line between external and internal threats is becoming increasingly blurred, the european security environment is becoming more complex, and the autonomy of individual countries or regions is diminishing. we need to reinforce the idea that defence and intelligence cooperation at european level is no longer just a political option but a strategic and economic necessity. cooperation with the un is also important on issues such as peace and security, terrorism, organised crime, regional conflicts, state bankruptcies and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. cooperation with the un general assembly is essential to eradicate trafficking in human beings, prevent recruitment by terrorist groups and disrupt the financing of these groups. we must restrict the recruitment, organisation, travel and equipment of terrorist fighters, and the financing of terrorist travel and activities.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the committee on foreign affairs proposes that parliament make recommendations to the council for the 71st session of the united nations general assembly on the following subjects: peace and security fight against terrorism prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and disarmament migration human rights, democracy and the rule of law development and climate change reform of the eu and the un system i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's recommendations to the council, which will enable the eu and its member states to take a stand on current international issues at the 71st session of the un general assembly this year. the positions and priorities reflect the eu's positions and european interests as they have developed over time in the context of the eu's common foreign and security policy. among the priorities for the future of europe, the refugee crisis and migration as international challenges and the need to address them through a joint global effort are given due emphasis. among other international issues, my mandate in the ep delegation for ukraine has given me particular attention to the formulation of the eu position on the situation in ukraine. i agree that this reflects with sufficient resolve our common position on support for democratization in ukraine, the illegal annexation of crimea and the condemnation of military violence, with particular reference to the need for further international pressure on russia, a permanent member of the security council. i also support the eu's demand for permanent membership of the security council to be expressed at this session, in the context of the un reform. overall, i considered that the adopted recommendations could serve well as a basis for coordinated eu member state action at the 71st session of the un general assembly.
madam president, i fully supported the report on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. this is because it is the first international convention to be ratified by the european union. we had an excellent debate in this chamber today, and i don't want to repeat what we've said, but i do want to draw attention to one thing, and that is the need to decongest the emergency number 112. unfortunately, today, within the european union, deaf and hard of hearing citizens cannot access this, cannot ask for help for themselves, their families, or anyone else. it is important that today's vote puts pressure on the european commission to initiate this change as soon as possible.
madam president, i voted for the report on the rights of the disabled, but i had some reservations. mostly because, although we talk about disability rights, there is very little call for real rights enforcement in the report. in particular, point 42 of the report deals with petitions submitted to the committee on petitions of the european parliament by disabled people who have suffered clear infringements in the so-called 'cross-compliance' procedure. it's the same in my country, where people who have long been disabled, unable to work, a certain percentage of people who are unable to work, have been subjected to what they report are extremely humiliating procedures that were clearly illegal in many cases, and here the report is just giving them a kind of a faux-slap instead of telling them to exercise their rights, to have qualified lawyers who are specialists in these kinds of issues, disability cases, and to take these outrageous cases to court and to the appropriate law enforcement agencies.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities provides a comprehensive overview of the situation and the difficulties encountered. in this context, i would like to recall that persons with disabilities are often excluded from, or do not have effective access to, education and training services where personalised education processes are needed to take account of their level of disability. they should therefore be supported in developing their social, economic and educational potential. i stress that the necessary measures must be taken to ensure that all students with disabilities benefit from the benefits of reasonable accommodation necessary to enable them to exercise their right to an inclusive, quality education. member states and responsible regional and local authorities should be encouraged to strengthen their training programmes for all stakeholders involved in non-formal and informal learning. this will help them to play a role in overcoming school prejudices against people with disabilities, particularly those with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in december 2010, the eu became the first regional integration organisation to accede to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd). the crpd is one of the human rights treaties with the most states parties and signatories. the convention has been signed by all 28 eu member states, ratified by 25 member states except finland and ireland, and the netherlands is close to acceding to the convention. following its accession to the convention, the eu, like the other states parties, was required to prepare an introductory report on the implementation of the convention. the commission submitted this in june 2014 and the crpd committee responded in may 2015. in its response, the commission largely took into account the recommendation adopted by parliament in may 2015. the eu is obliged to respond to the crpd committee's questions in this regard by september 2016. the ep therefore decided to draw up an own-initiative report in order to incorporate its opinion in the commission's reply. i voted in favour of the report submitted by the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. ‒ in addition to its content, the convention is also of major importance for reasons of principle, as it is the first and so far the only international human rights treaty to be ratified by the eu itself in december 2010. in accordance with the treaty, the eu has undertaken to report on the implementation of the convention and to review it regularly. i supported the report, which points out, among other things, that people with disabilities are still often excluded from mainstream society and deprived of their human rights. analysis of the reasons shows that while some of the commitments fall within eu competence, their implementation by the member states is not satisfactory. the members of the socialist group are committed to the protection and promotion of the human rights of disabled people. i agree that persons with disabilities are entitled to equal rights, inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy, support from publicly funded schemes and full participation in society as full citizens. it should be noted that articles 21 and 26 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union explicitly prohibit discrimination on the grounds of disability and provide for the equal participation of persons with disabilities in society. i can only imagine this in a stronger european union, and i am confident that we will be able to act together on a growing number of issues.
madam president, i'd like to share some of the data from this report. 68% of teenagers regularly consume energy drinks. 25% of teenagers who drink energy drinks drink three or more cans at a time. regular consumption of energy drinks has been linked to headaches, sleep disturbances and behavioural problems in children and adolescents. i think, my fellow mps, that this report is more than what it seems. it's a kind of vision of the current state of the european union, not just the state of health, but the state of mind and the moral state of the european union, that europe has gotten to the point where the big capitalists, who will stop at nothing to make a profit, are feeding our children with poisons, and they are in a state of needing these poisons for some reason. we should think very carefully about the root causes, the underlying causes and the connections, and we should write a report on this.
in writing. ‒ european surveys show that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children already drink energy drinks regularly. beverages commonly consumed as soft drinks by young people may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 87 milligrams of caffeine per can. moreover, according to the warning on the label of the products, their consumption is not recommended at all for children and pregnant women. the european commission's plan would have allowed these drinks to be marketed with labels claiming that they increase alertness and have a positive effect on concentration. the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that the scientific basis of the claims was established. however, the intention of the legislator in regulating health claims made on foods was not to advertise products but to provide consumers with adequate information. we must take even greater responsibility for children and adolescents. we cannot promote drinks with contradictory messages that are recommended for adults to drink in limited quantities. the health of our youth cannot be sacrificed to economic interests. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection.
in writing. ‒ european surveys show that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children already drink energy drinks regularly. beverages commonly consumed as soft drinks by young people may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 87 milligrams of caffeine per can. moreover, according to the warning on the label of the products, their consumption is not recommended at all for children and pregnant women. the european commission's plan would have allowed these drinks to be marketed with labels claiming that they increase alertness and have a positive effect on concentration. the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that the scientific basis of the claims was established. however, the intention of the legislator in regulating health claims made on foods was not to advertise products but to provide consumers with adequate information. we must take even greater responsibility for children and adolescents. we cannot promote drinks with contradictory messages that are recommended for adults to drink in limited quantities. the health of our youth cannot be sacrificed to economic interests. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection.
in writing. ‒ european surveys show that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children already drink energy drinks regularly. beverages commonly consumed as soft drinks by young people may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 87 milligrams of caffeine per can. moreover, according to the warning on the label of the products, their consumption is not recommended at all for children and pregnant women. the european commission's plan would have allowed these drinks to be marketed with labels claiming that they increase alertness and have a positive effect on concentration. the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that the scientific basis of the claims was established. however, the intention of the legislator in regulating health claims made on foods was not to advertise products but to provide consumers with adequate information. we must take even greater responsibility for children and adolescents. we cannot promote drinks with contradictory messages that are recommended for adults to drink in limited quantities. the health of our youth cannot be sacrificed to economic interests. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection.
in writing. ‒ european surveys show that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children already drink energy drinks regularly. beverages commonly consumed as soft drinks by young people may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 87 milligrams of caffeine per can. moreover, according to the warning on the label of the products, their consumption is not recommended at all for children and pregnant women. the european commission's plan would have allowed these drinks to be marketed with labels claiming that they increase alertness and have a positive effect on concentration. the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that the scientific basis of the claims was established. however, the intention of the legislator in regulating health claims made on foods was not to advertise products but to provide consumers with adequate information. we must take even greater responsibility for children and adolescents. we cannot promote drinks with contradictory messages that are recommended for adults to drink in limited quantities. the health of our youth cannot be sacrificed to economic interests. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection.
in writing. ‒ european surveys show that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children already drink energy drinks regularly. beverages commonly consumed as soft drinks by young people may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 87 milligrams of caffeine per can. moreover, according to the warning on the label of the products, their consumption is not recommended at all for children and pregnant women. the european commission's plan would have allowed these drinks to be marketed with labels claiming that they increase alertness and have a positive effect on concentration. the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that the scientific basis of the claims was established. however, the intention of the legislator in regulating health claims made on foods was not to advertise products but to provide consumers with adequate information. we must take even greater responsibility for children and adolescents. we cannot promote drinks with contradictory messages that are recommended for adults to drink in limited quantities. the health of our youth cannot be sacrificed to economic interests. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection.
in writing. ‒ european surveys show that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children already drink energy drinks regularly. beverages commonly consumed as soft drinks by young people may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 87 milligrams of caffeine per can. moreover, according to the warning on the label of the products, their consumption is not recommended at all for children and pregnant women. the european commission's plan would have allowed these drinks to be marketed with labels claiming that they increase alertness and have a positive effect on concentration. the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that the scientific basis of the claims was established. however, the intention of the legislator in regulating health claims made on foods was not to advertise products but to provide consumers with adequate information. we must take even greater responsibility for children and adolescents. we cannot promote drinks with contradictory messages that are recommended for adults to drink in limited quantities. the health of our youth cannot be sacrificed to economic interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's objection because i believe that we need to act with even greater responsibility when it comes to children and young people. we cannot promote drinks with contradictory messages that are recommended for adults to drink in limited quantities. the health of our youth cannot be sacrificed to economic interests.
in writing. ‒ european surveys show that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children already drink energy drinks regularly. beverages commonly consumed as soft drinks by young people may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 87 milligrams of caffeine per can. moreover, according to the warning on the label of the products, their consumption is not recommended at all for children and pregnant women. the european commission's plan would have allowed these drinks to be marketed with labels claiming that they increase alertness and have a positive effect on concentration. the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that the scientific basis of the claims was established. however, the intention of the legislator in regulating health claims made on foods was not to advertise products but to provide consumers with adequate information. we must take even greater responsibility for children and adolescents. we cannot promote drinks with contradictory messages that are recommended for adults to drink in limited quantities. the health of our youth cannot be sacrificed to economic interests. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection.
in writing. ‒ the commission adopted a draft regulation amending regulation (eu) no 432/2012 establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health. in its report, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety objects to the provisions of the draft concerning energy drinks and proposes that parliament ask the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to consider introducing restrictions on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ european surveys show that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children already drink energy drinks regularly. beverages commonly consumed as soft drinks by young people may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 87 milligrams of caffeine per can. moreover, according to the warning on the label of the products, their consumption is not recommended at all for children and pregnant women. the european commission's plan would have allowed these drinks to be marketed with labels claiming that they increase alertness and have a positive effect on concentration. the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that the scientific basis of the claims was established. however, the intention of the legislator in regulating health claims made on foods was not to advertise products but to provide consumers with adequate information. we must take even greater responsibility for children and adolescents. we cannot promote drinks with contradictory messages that are recommended for adults to drink in limited quantities. the health of our youth cannot be sacrificed to economic interests. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection.
in writing. ‒ the report places too much emphasis on energy drinks, while not addressing soft drinks and confectionery such as cola, cocoa or chocolate. these products also contain significant amounts of caffeine and sugar, so they may be harmful to children's health in higher amounts. the european commission's draft regulation states that caffeine helps to increase alertness and concentration, but that it cannot be used in foods intended for children and adolescents. i did not support the elements that urge the definition of nutritional profile, because i believe that these values cannot be defined in this form at eu level, clearly. the draft requires that individual foods or food groups must meet nutritional profiles in order to be able to make nutrition or health claims and that the european commission develops the conditions for the use of nutrition or health claims for foods or food groups with regard to nutrient profiles. this means that we label food as good or bad, which i consider to be dangerous, especially for local products.
mr president, this afternoon, despite the enormous interest shown here - there are about 20 meps present as usual, and critics of the european union have obviously seen these scenes at times - terrible crimes are being covered up here. that there are nation states that have this idea that their own people should eat food grown on their own land, grown by their own farmers, and not bring food from other countries, from distant places, or wherever possible, chemically processed food into their country. i think 90 out of 100 hungarians would agree that hungarians are better off if we support hungarian farmers and eat hungarian apples, and that's why i encourage everyone to buy from local producers in the local market, not from multinationals in tesco and other stores. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. this is your big problem, that everyone is labeled as a populist, a demagogue, a xenophobe, an extremist, a racist who doesn't agree 100% with your imperial expansion and your dictatorial ideas. that's why you're where you are, that's why the british burned it, that's why you left, and that's why your building is going to fall like a house of cards. stop insulting other people, look a little bit inside yourself, much more... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. – this is good example to prove that neglecting important european values and principles will ultimately result in harming actual eu interests: providing eu citizens’ and businesses’ data to china, a key partner without any credible data protection laws, but with the largest number of super-computers in the world (even more than in the us) offers the chinese a clear commercial advantage they will not hesitate to take advantage of. so, for me the issue is not just about principles: it is also about protecting european jobs. i hope the commission has the right answer, with a viable and reassuring solution to a very practical dilemma.
in writing. the minimum wage is currently in force in 22 of the 28 member states of the european union. however, it was the introduction of the german hourly wage that upset the mood of the undertakings concerned in almost all the member states. the procedure is still ongoing, but the european commission is expected to reach a conclusion by the end of this year. i welcome the fact that the commission has acted immediately and is examining the german legislation and continuing to consult the german state in the framework of the infringement procedure, but there are still many uncertainties: questions to which the community rules allow an answer that the german state's minimum wage law in its current form is incompatible with community law and questions which create an unresolved conflict of laws situation in the case of the joint application of the national law of two states at the same time. the situation has thus arisen where an employer may comply with one national law but the employee does not know the other. national laws do not overlap, they are equivalent, and conflict-free application is possible only if there is no overlap in the effects of the laws. this cannot be said for the german minimum wage, since the hungarian hauliers concerned for the purposes of the minimum wage rule are basically subject to hungarian law. i hope that the commission will take a decision on this critical issue as soon as possible, as our carriers cannot be kept in a state of uncertainty.
it's a two-card draw. - my dear fellow mps. i don't really want to argue with you, i just want to ask. you say - and there are many who agree with you - that it is the member states' responsibility to design the energy mix. but could you think of a principle in the european institutions that would be to have, say, zero fossil fuels in the energy mix by 2030?
mr. president, since the paris climate summit, energy issues have been treated in this chamber as a sub-category of climate policy. it is perhaps no coincidence that the report also refers to the objectives of climate and energy when it is about the electricity market. and it is perhaps no coincidence that šefčovič, the commissioner responsible for the energy union, is not representing the commission in this case. of course, i think the objectives of the paris meeting must be met. but many are setting ambitious goals without taking security of supply into account. that renewable energy has fluctuating capacity and therefore limited proportions within a system. they don't consider affordability. not all countries are as rich as germany to pay a huge amount of money to adopt renewable energy. and among the low-carbon technologies, they only talk about renewable energy, whereas there's nuclear energy, which is clean energy. and i'll add: in 2014, a group of american scientists, known for their environmental work, said that nuclear energy has a long way to go in terms of climate protection. and another note: for a country, energy security is a matter of survival. this responsibility cannot be taken out of the hands of national governments.
my fellow members of parliament! according to the renewable energy scoreboard, recently adopted by the european parliament, two member states have serious problems in reaching their 2020 renewable energy targets: one of them is hungary. this is not a coincidence, as the hungarian government, in an attempt to prove that the planned paks nuclear power plant expansion could be profitable, wants to restrict the spread of renewable energies in hungary at all costs. so it was possible, the unique thing in the world, to put a special tax on solar panels, and it was also possible, the unique thing, to have wind turbines actually banned in hungary recently. which was no longer necessary, since no wind power had been built in the country for the past ten years. the reason is simple: they are trying to make the paks nuclear power plant expansion profitable. but we all know that this will end up with europe's most expensive electricity and massive construction corruption, so we must do everything we can to stop the expansion of the paks nuclear power plant.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the european union devotes 59% of its total natural gas consumption and 12% of its oil consumption to heating and cooling, while every 1% increase in energy efficiency reduces natural gas imports by 2.6%. the union is therefore paying particular attention to the development of a heating and cooling strategy in order to achieve its climate objectives and reduce its dependence on energy suppliers. heating and cooling our buildings consumes nearly 35% of our total energy consumption, but with serious renovation work, this could be significantly reduced. the stock of inefficient walls without proper insulation and single-ply windows continues to be high. to this end, the energy performance of buildings directive was created, which sets mandatory minimum energy efficiency criteria for new investments. in industry, insulation and efficiency improvements can reduce emissions, as heating to the right temperature is often an integral part of the manufacturing process. however, the objective is to decarbonise the processes as completely as possible. however, for processes that are really high temperature, there is no solution for heating with electricity from renewable sources, so fossil fuels are needed. the union's priority is to make the best possible use of the resulting heat surplus, or rather, the resulting cold surplus. finally, the role of lng import terminals as important sources of district heating is worth highlighting.
my fellow members of parliament! the biggest cancer in all the european union cohesion programmes, in all the financial support programmes, is rampant corruption. we have a lot of news coming in from european union member states. unfortunately, the worst examples come from my country, hungary. where hardly a day has gone by in the last few years without the press uncovering a corrupt deal involving a government politician or a financier connected to him, an oligarch. the real problem is that these corruption cases are not followed by criminal prosecution and ultimately punishment. there are member states - hungary is one of them - where the prosecution is reluctant to take action in corruption cases involving pro-government politicians. it is no coincidence that it is always the member states that are most opposed to the creation of a common european prosecutor's office that are most afraid that their own politicians, their own environment, may be involved in these cases. that's the confession. if a government of a member state does not want to set up a common european union prosecutor's office to investigate this type of corruption, it is essentially saying that it does not want these corruption cases to be investigated. we therefore propose that, if not now, then in the post-2020 cohesion period only those member states that commit to setting up a common european union prosecutor's office should receive eu support. it's not possible to accept the money, but the crimes are not... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the overall objective of european territorial cooperation is to reduce the impact of national borders, to reduce disparities between regions, to remove remaining obstacles to cross-border investment and joint work, to strengthen cohesion and to promote the harmonious economic, social, cultural and territorial development of the union as a whole. as some 38% of europe's population lives in border regions and as the union faces a major economic, financial and social crisis, key policies need to take these facts into account. i believe that european territorial cooperation has proven its effectiveness, but its potential needs to be further developed. it is important that the report highlights the potential of regional policy beyond the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, culture, health and the environment. i therefore ask the commission and the member states to consider maintaining european territorial cooperation as an important tool and even to give it a stronger role in the post-2020 cohesion policy, while significantly increasing its budget. however, i cannot vote in favour of the report because it contains several paragraphs (in addition to useful ideas) which would allocate cohesion resources to the integration of immigrants.
in writing. the european structural and investment funds are the main drivers of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the union. cohesion policy is an investment policy with tangible results, which has undergone highly exemplary reforms in recent times. the resulting results-oriented reform can serve as a model for other spending areas of the eu budget. cohesion policy faces a number of new challenges which need to be addressed while respecting the original and still relevant objectives of the policy and the specific needs of the regions. there is a general shift from infrastructure development towards development supporting the knowledge-based economy, but it should be borne in mind that infrastructure development cannot continue to be pushed into the background, because infrastructure is often lacking even in the more developed member states, development cannot always be solved on a market basis and adequate infrastructure connectivity is also a prerequisite for the functioning of the single internal market. the share of financial instruments has increased significantly over the period 2014-2020 at the expense of grants and this trend is expected to continue. i think it is important to stress that while financial instruments can be useful, they cannot provide a viable solution in all cases, as many developments have a significant social value but no direct financial benefit. therefore, before increasing the share of financial instruments, a thorough analysis of the results of their cohesion policy contribution is required.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of the bresso report. macro-regional strategies are of paramount importance in preserving the diversity of the european union and ensuring the protection of europe's heritage. the development needs of the macro-regions must be seen as a whole, and the eu's multi-funding approach, as formulated in the recent reform, is well suited to this end. it is now up to the regions, the governments of the member states concerned, and the county and municipal authorities to work closely together to formulate the development needs of these units. the implementation of the strategy for the danube macro-region is of course my priority.
madam president, europe has always been a leading donor for people in need, but today there is more at stake than before in terms of aid. mass migration creates a new humanitarian and security situation, not only in africa but in europe. our primary task is to lend a hand in crisis areas. the eu trust fund aims to prevent displacement but we have to go further and we need a clear strategy. i would like a really clear strategy on protecting vulnerable communities in their homeland. without a common european strategy we cannot overcome the challenges of irregular migration. if you look at africa, displacement is often driven by religious hatred. europe is responsible for these people, whose basic rights are in danger. we need to join forces in relief activities, and the eu trust fund that we have discussed today strongly promotes this idea. let me make a serious suggestion here: eu action will be more effective if we bring religious organisations on board as well. they manage efficiently functioning local relief networks. the efficiency of organised church bodies often exceeds that of public aid. it would be a failure to ignore their local experience as they have a significant impact on creating social stability. without this cooperation, negative impacts will increase in the future. we need a new level of comprehensive support in this situation: we are helping them and they are showing up in europe. the recent illegal migration has been handled through the improvement of security and economic development to stop the displacement. finally, i thank my colleagues very much for their efforts in this work.
madam president, i would like to express my deep indignation that, although the commission already acknowledged in december that ukraine had completed its visa liberalisation plan, bureaucratic procedures continue to hamper the visa-free travel of citizens. while europe is overwhelmed by hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants without any form of identity document, ukrainian citizens belonging to the european community, including transcarpathian hungarians, even with visas, have to wait for hours at the few available border crossings. the citizens of ukraine have made many sacrifices for european orientation, and in return the eu has made this symbolic gesture without delay. i therefore ask that the ukrainian dossier be treated according to its importance and that the necessary steps be taken as soon as possible to grant visa-free travel and to draw up a development and budgetary plan for the expansion of border infrastructure, the development of international routes and border crossings, because this would finally be a tangible help for citizens.
madam president, the goal of each western balkan state is to join the european union. this political ambition cannot be overlooked or neglected because it could easily cause accession fatigue. i am glad to see that the european people’s party is working very intensively with the western balkan countries. the presence of the epp and, through that, the presence of christian democratic values in the region is of great importance. this was underpinned by yesterday’s election victory of the hdz in croatia but the epp was also very active in the resolution of political stalemates in macedonia and bosnia-herzegovina. i would like especially to emphasise the ambition of the governing serbian progressive party (sns) to become an associate member of the epp. we will see the final decision on this request in november. through that the epp will gain a strong member party which would greatly help in terms of its ambition to fortify stability in the region.
madam president, i would like to thank president tusk for drawing the attention of the g20 participants to the need for inclusive solidarity. the causes of the migration pressures on europe are global, and therefore the solutions must be global. but it's a difficult task, because there are some member states within the european union itself that are not very willing to do their part in dealing with this problem or in solving it. the second thanks go to president juncker, who has very eloquently warned the participants, and more specifically the chinese hosts, about the decline in chinese steel exports to eu member states. i think that you have done a very good job in protecting european jobs. finally, i would also like to point out that, although china's accession to the paris climate agreement took place at or around the time of the meeting, i believe that greater, even greater and continuing attention should be paid to the forthcoming g20 to ensure that we can represent the european will to keep fossil fuels, if possible, underground.
madam president, stopping the migration of people that is affecting europe cannot be a european task alone, but it also involves a heavy responsibility on the part of the global players, and above all on the part of the united states. this should have been the case for the eu at the g20. i quote from the joint letter from the president of the council and the president of the commission: 'we will call on the parties involved to increase humanitarian aid, to increase the resettlement of migrants.' at the same time, donald tusk said: 'europe is slowly reaching the limits of its capacity to welcome refugees'. well, that's closer to the truth. it is time for the leaders of european countries, led by angela merkel, to lift their heads out of the sand and face the will of the majority of the population. we want to protect our european identity and our european culture!
in writing. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i welcome the fact-based, balanced report of the emis committee of inquiry, which does not make hasty decisions but puts forward its final position with further clarification. we agree that it is important to review and improve the type-approval process. i believe that the european car industry should emerge from the whole emissions scandal strengthened and united. the situation that has arisen should be used to develop new strategies and development plans for the coming period, with particular emphasis on new, innovative technologies. for it is now clear that the automotive industry is facing great and profound changes. this is a very complex process, which must take into account the fact that, at the moment, in the automotive industry, technologies based on conventional fuels and new alternative solutions will be moving in parallel lines for years to come. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. similar innovation strategies have been developed before. the new approach differs from its predecessors in that it broadly involves local audiences and resources in strategy-building, shifts the focus from technology research and development to embracing the whole process of innovation, and not only copies best practice but builds on economic competitive advantages and future potential, recognising the areas' own unique strengths and values. the report does not set specific, but general objectives which can always be stated. as with the former cfsp, there was always a need to increase efficiency and deepen cooperation. finally, its main message is that it is asking dg regio to produce a short policy document on past experience with the strategy and to disseminate it widely. i thought that was supportive.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that research and innovation strategies (ris3) contribute to the effective use of eu funds, affect all member states and regions of the european union and unlock the potential of all regions, thereby helping the union to overcome both internal and external innovation gaps in order to become more competitive at global level. it is appropriate that these regional strategies focus on energy, health, information and communication technologies, advanced materials, food, services, tourism, sustainable innovation and transport, the bio-based economy, production systems and the cultural and creative sectors. however, unfortunately many strategies are not sufficiently detailed, i believe that supporting the national observatories of smart specialisation strategies can help to develop more appropriate indicator systems to monitor ris3, in particular in terms of methodology and training. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ strengthening technological development and innovation is one of the investment priorities of the european regional development fund for the period 2014-2020. smart specialisation strategies can have a positive impact on making the european economy more competitive, creating jobs and boosting entrepreneurship. the strategies promote knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and quality jobs. the positive effects of supporting innovation and research are undeniable, which is why i voted in favour of the report in the plenary vote. however, i think it is important to note that the development of basic infrastructure should not be neglected either, because often even in the more developed member states there is a lack of infrastructure, the necessary development cannot always be solved on a market basis and adequate infrastructure connections are also a prerequisite for the functioning of the single internal market.
in writing. ‒ strengthening technological development and innovation is one of the investment priorities of the european regional development fund for the period 2014-2020. smart specialisation strategies can have a positive impact on making the european economy more competitive, creating jobs and boosting entrepreneurship. the strategies promote knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and quality jobs. the positive effects of supporting innovation and research are undeniable, which is why i voted in favour of the report in the plenary vote. however, i think it is important to note that the development of basic infrastructure should not be neglected either, because often even in the more developed member states there is a lack of infrastructure, the necessary development cannot always be solved on a market basis and adequate infrastructure connections are also a prerequisite for the functioning of the single internal market.
in writing. ‒ strengthening technological development and innovation is one of the investment priorities of the european regional development fund for the period 2014-2020. smart specialisation strategies can have a positive impact on making the european economy more competitive, creating jobs and boosting entrepreneurship. the strategies promote knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and quality jobs. the positive effects of supporting innovation and research are undeniable, which is why i voted in favour of the report in the plenary vote. however, i think it is important to note that the development of basic infrastructure should not be neglected either, because often even in the more developed member states there is a lack of infrastructure, the necessary development cannot always be solved on a market basis and adequate infrastructure connections are also a prerequisite for the functioning of the single internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the people's party position, as it is vital for the eu to sustainably improve its capacity to innovate in a time of economic recession and consequent severe budgetary constraints and increasing global competition. ris3 is central to the contribution of cohesion policy to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and is therefore a precondition for member states and regions of the union to benefit from the resources of the european structural and investment funds. all european regions have ris3 strategies which need to be reviewed on an ongoing basis. this is an area of innovation, which is constantly changing, and it is therefore essential that strategies are constantly adapted to changes in the area of specialisation. in addition, the areas to which the strategies should pay particular attention should be highlighted: analysis of priorities, strengths and potential of each region, inclusion of the four-way spiral in the definition of strategies, use of the methodology, establishment of regular interim quantitative and qualitative monitoring, establishment of participation procedures, invitation to stakeholders, with particular regard to the private sector, establishment of public-private synergies, coordination between all levels of management and organisational units, and exploration of alternative funding methods.
in writing. ‒ strengthening technological development and innovation is one of the investment priorities of the european regional development fund for the period 2014-2020. smart specialisation strategies can have a positive impact on making the european economy more competitive, creating jobs and boosting entrepreneurship. the strategies promote knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and quality jobs. the positive effects of supporting innovation and research are undeniable, which is why i voted in favour of the report in the plenary vote. however, i think it is important to note that the development of basic infrastructure should not be neglected either, because often even in the more developed member states there is a lack of infrastructure, the necessary development cannot always be solved on a market basis and adequate infrastructure connections are also a prerequisite for the functioning of the single internal market.
in writing. ‒ strengthening technological development and innovation is one of the investment priorities of the european regional development fund for the period 2014-2020. smart specialisation strategies can have a positive impact on making the european economy more competitive, creating jobs and boosting entrepreneurship. the strategies promote knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and quality jobs. the positive effects of supporting innovation and research are undeniable, which is why i voted in favour of the report in the plenary vote. however, i think it is important to note that the development of basic infrastructure should not be neglected either, because often even in the more developed member states there is a lack of infrastructure, the necessary development cannot always be solved on a market basis and adequate infrastructure connections are also a prerequisite for the functioning of the single internal market.
in writing. ‒ in a time of economic recession and consequent tight budgetary constraints and increasing global competition, it is vital for the eu to sustainably improve its capacity to innovate. the european regional development fund (erdf) has defined that regions should concentrate their r&d&i investments through smart specialisation strategies in the 2014-2020 programming period. the ris3 is therefore a prerequisite for member states and regions of the union to benefit from the resources of the european structural and investment funds. all european regions have a ris3 strategy in place. the strategies were developed and published by the regions during 2014. once the strategies have been published and implemented, lessons must be drawn and efforts must be made to focus more on actions to be implemented in the coming years to make the ris3 strategies more effective and efficient. the regional development committee report outlines the key aspects of the strategy and focuses on the main areas where improvements are needed in ris3. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ in a time of economic recession and consequent tight budgetary constraints and increasing global competition, it is vital for the eu to sustainably improve its capacity to innovate. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the overall objective of european territorial cooperation is to reduce the impact of national borders, to reduce disparities between regions, to remove remaining obstacles to cross-border investment and joint work, to strengthen cohesion and to promote the harmonious economic, social, cultural and territorial development of the union as a whole. with some 38% of europe's population living in border regions and the eu facing a major economic, financial and social crisis, key policies need to take these facts into account. i believe that european territorial cooperation has proven its effectiveness, but its potential needs to be further developed. it is important that the report highlights the potential of regional policy beyond the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, culture, health and the environment. i therefore ask the commission and the member states to consider maintaining european territorial cooperation as an important tool and even to give it a stronger role in the post-2020 cohesion policy, while significantly increasing its budget. however, i voted against the report because it contains several paragraphs (in addition to useful ideas) that would have allocated cohesion resources to the integration of immigrants.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to support the report on european territorial cooperation in the plenary vote. the report contains many valuable ideas. it is clear that, although european territorial cooperation has been an objective of cohesion policy since the 2007-13 programming period, it has not received the attention it deserves. however, several paragraphs suggest that cohesion funds, territorial development instruments, should also be used to support the social integration of migrants, to address the challenges posed by the refugee crisis, and to support measures in the area of migration and asylum. this proposal ignores the original objective of cohesion policy, which is to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the different regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions and to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion (article 174 tfeu). this is not the much-vaunted solidarity but an investment policy where net contributors benefit at least as much as the countries receiving aid. i cannot agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to support the report on european territorial cooperation in the plenary vote. the report contains many valuable ideas. it is clear that, although european territorial cooperation has been an objective of cohesion policy since the 2007-13 programming period, it has not received the attention it deserves. however, several paragraphs suggest that cohesion funds, territorial development instruments, should also be used to support the social integration of migrants, to address the challenges posed by the refugee crisis, and to support measures in the area of migration and asylum. this proposal ignores the original objective of cohesion policy, which is to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the different regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions and to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion (article 174 tfeu). this is not the much-vaunted solidarity but an investment policy where net contributors benefit at least as much as the countries receiving aid. i cannot agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to support the report on european territorial cooperation in the plenary vote. the report contains many valuable ideas. it is clear that, although european territorial cooperation has been an objective of cohesion policy since the 2007-13 programming period, it has not received the attention it deserves. however, several paragraphs suggest that cohesion funds, territorial development instruments, should also be used to support the social integration of migrants, to address the challenges posed by the refugee crisis, and to support measures in the area of migration and asylum. this proposal ignores the original objective of cohesion policy, which is to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the different regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions and to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion (article 174 tfeu). this is not the much-vaunted solidarity but an investment policy where net contributors benefit at least as much as the countries receiving aid. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i do not agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to support the report on european territorial cooperation in the plenary vote. the report contains many valuable ideas. it is clear that, although european territorial cooperation has been an objective of cohesion policy since the 2007-13 programming period, it has not received the attention it deserves. however, several paragraphs suggest that cohesion funds, territorial development instruments, should also be used to support the social integration of migrants, to address the challenges posed by the refugee crisis, and to support measures in the area of migration and asylum. this proposal ignores the original objective of cohesion policy, which is to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the different regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions and to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion (article 174 tfeu). this is not the much-vaunted solidarity but an investment policy where net contributors benefit at least as much as the countries receiving aid. i cannot agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to support the report on european territorial cooperation in the plenary vote. the report contains many valuable ideas. it is clear that, although european territorial cooperation has been an objective of cohesion policy since the 2007-2013 programming period, it has not received the attention it deserves. however, several paragraphs suggest that cohesion funds, territorial development instruments, should also be used to support the social integration of migrants, to address the challenges posed by the refugee crisis, and to support measures in the area of migration and asylum. this proposal ignores the original objective of cohesion policy, which is to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the different regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions and to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion (article 174 tfeu). this is not the much-vaunted solidarity but an investment policy where net contributors benefit at least as much as the countries receiving aid. i cannot agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ interreg, one of the four community initiatives of the european union, was launched in 1990 as a community initiative with a budget of eur 1 billion, with 11 beneficiary member states, exclusively to support crossborder cooperation. its initiatives are areas of cooperation of fundamental importance for the development and cohesion of the european region as a whole. it was later extended to transnational and interregional cooperation. a specific regulation was adopted for the period 2014-2020 for european territorial cooperation actions supported by the erdf. european territorial cooperation now involves all 28 member states and has become one of the two objectives of cohesion policy. the report of the regional development committee reviews the added value of european territorial cooperation, its contribution to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and best practices, and makes recommendations for the future. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ in 1990, interreg was launched as a community initiative with a budget of just €1 billion, exclusively to support crossborder cooperation, with 11 beneficiary member states. it was later extended to transnational and interregional cooperation. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the emis committee of inquiry, i voted in favour of the interim report on the examination of emission measurements in the automotive sector. this is a matter of great importance to the citizens of europe, both in terms of improving air quality and in terms of solving the volkswagen scandal. it is clear that volkswagen has deceived consumers and that our main objective must be to regain the trust of european consumers. the legislation should be enforced by manufacturers through the establishment of an appropriate real driving emission test cycle and an effective market surveillance system by national authorities. in the case of the diesel scandal, it should be emphasised that various economic interests cannot be allowed to override a sound public interest. we must also strongly call on the european commission and the joint research centre (jrc) to provide the committee with any relevant documents that could help the work of the committee. all relevant communications within the jrc and between the jrc and the directorate-general for internal market, the directorate-general for environment, the national authorities of the member states and the type-approval authorities of the european commission could be useful. furthermore, all documents relating to the activities of the various expert groups, as well as all official and informal correspondence between the commission and the european automobile manufacturers' association (acea). such disclosure and evidence gathering is essential to restore consumer confidence.
in writing. ‒ on 17 december last year, the european parliament adopted a decision setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches of eu law and alleged maladministration in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector, and called on the committee to submit an interim report six months after the start of the work. at the end of the period, the panel shall, on the basis of the oral and written evidence submitted to it and examined by it, establish in its interim report the need for further investigations in all aspects covered by its mandate. it therefore proposes that parliament instruct the committee of inquiry to continue its work and support all measures and initiatives aimed at fulfilling its mandate, and ask the conference of presidents and the bureau to support all measures necessary to enable the committee of inquiry to fulfil its mandate. it also asks parliament to express the expectation that the governments, parliaments and delegated authorities of the member states will support the committee of inquiry in the performance of its tasks, in full respect of the principle of good faith cooperation enshrined in eu law. i supported the adoption of the interim report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the draft interim report of the emis committee is to provide a brief overview of the activities of the emis committee since its establishment on 2 march 2016 and to provide an insight into the work plan for the first half of the emis mandate, which will be prepared shortly. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ in its order of 26 november 2014, the central district court of pest requested the suspension of the immunity of istván ujhelyi, accused of committing the offence of defamation. the statements on which the indictment is based were made by istván ujhelyi on 25 april 2014, before he was elected to the european parliament in the 2014 european parliament elections. the committee on legal affairs therefore considers in its report that mr ujhelyi was not acting as a member of the european parliament when he made the statements in question and therefore proposes that the european parliament suspend mr ujhelyi's immunity. according to istván ujhelyi, on the other hand, under the xxxvi hungarian law on the national assembly of 2012, a candidate running in the elections to the european parliament in hungary is also entitled to the right of immunity, and therefore the european parliament should maintain its right of immunity. for my part, i consider the position of mr ujhelyi to be well founded and have therefore voted against the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ former member of the european parliament rosario crocetta, accused of making defamatory statements, a criminal offence under article 595 of the italian penal code, has requested that his immunity be maintained under articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union in a criminal case pending before the court of justice of palermo. in its report, the committee on legal affairs states that the statements in question were made by ms rosario crocetta when she was a member of the european parliament and that it is apparent from the documents submitted to the committee and from the hearing in which she was heard that mr crocetta's statements have a direct and manifest connection with the performance of his duties as a member of parliament. the committee therefore considers that rosario crocetta was acting as a member of the european parliament in the case in question and therefore recommends that the parliament should maintain the immunity and privileges of rosario crocetta. i supported the recommendation of the legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ rosario crocetta, former member of the european parliament, seeks to retain her privileges and immunities in connection with a criminal case pending before a court in palermo; whereas the notice sent by the public prosecutor's office accuses mr crocetta of having made defamatory statements, punishable by article 595 of the italian penal code. i followed the group's position in my decision.
in writing. ‒ in its request of 28 march 2016, the greek prosecutor general requested the suspension of the parliamentary immunity of mr sotirios zarianopulos, member of the european parliament, in the context of the investigative procedure concerning the alleged commission of an unlawful act. the greek authorities intend to prosecute sotirios zarianopoulos for failing to comply with his legal obligations as a member of the municipality of thessaloniki in 2011. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, it is clear that the proposed procedure is not linked to the mandate of mr zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament but to his previous membership of the municipality of thessaloniki, and there is no reason to assume that the intention behind the proposed procedure is to impede the political activity of the member, even more so since the procedure covers all persons who were members of the municipality of thessaloniki during the period in question. the committee therefore recommends that the european parliament suspend the member's immunity. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ in the request forwarded by the greek prosecutor general on 28 march 2016 and announced in plenary on 27 april 2016, the prosecutor general requests the suspension of the immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos in the context of the investigation procedure to be initiated by the prosecutor of thessaloniki in the case of the unlawful act. i followed the group's position in my decision.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members in respect of which croatia has so far had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. on 15 july 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on the basis of article xxiv:6 of the gatt. following those negotiations, the commission proposed to the council that the agreement be signed on behalf of the union. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of parliament's agreement to the draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members in respect of which croatia has so far had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. on 15 july 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on the basis of article xxiv:6 of the gatt. following those negotiations, the commission proposed to the council that the agreement be signed on behalf of the union. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of parliament's agreement to the draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members for which croatia has hitherto had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. on 15 july 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on the basis of article xxiv:6 of the gatt. following those negotiations, the commission proposed to the council that the agreement be signed on behalf of the union. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of parliament's agreement to the draft council decision.
in writing. - i voted for the recommendation. the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights in respect of the concessional lists of croatia in order to establish a possible compensatory adjustment. this adjustment had to be made as the rate of increase of the customs tariff level resulting from the transition to the eu external tariff system exceeds the level undertaken by croatia in the wto. having proposed to the council that the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters with china be signed on behalf of the union, the commission is required to give its consent to the parliament. the people's republic of china has the right to re-establish its previous trade rights, which have been somewhat eroded as a result of the enlargement of the eu customs union following the accession of croatia to the union. the commission was right to propose (1) an increase of the tariff quotas and (2) a reduction of the current fixed duty rates to offset the losses as a means of compensation for the chinese products concerned.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members in respect of which croatia has hitherto had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. the commission was given the necessary backstop to open negotiations on 15 july 2013 by the council, on the basis of article xxiv:6 of the gatt. following those negotiations, the commission proposed to the council that the agreement be signed on behalf of the union. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of parliament's agreement to the draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members for which croatia has hitherto had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. the commission was given the necessary backstop to open negotiations on 15 july 2013 by the council, on the basis of article xxiv:6 of the gatt. following those negotiations, the commission proposed to the council that the agreement be signed on behalf of the union. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of parliament's agreement to the draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. croatia has thus adopted the eu external tariff system, which has led to some erosion of the former trade rights of the people's republic of china, as stated in the report of the international trade commission. as regards the restoration of china's former trade rights, the commission has opened negotiations on the basis of the council's mandate of 15 july 2013 and proposes that the council sign the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters with the people's republic of china on behalf of the union. the council shall also obtain the consent of the european parliament. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members for which croatia has hitherto had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. on 15 july 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on the basis of article xxiv:6 of the gatt. following those negotiations, the commission proposed to the council that the agreement be signed on behalf of the union. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of parliament's agreement to the draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights in respect of the concessional lists of croatia in order to establish a possible compensatory adjustment. such adjustment shall be made where the rate of increase in the level of customs duties resulting from the transition to the eu's external tariff system exceeds the level of the acceding country's wto commitments. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members in respect of which croatia has hitherto had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. following the negotiations, the draft agreement was initialled in nairobi on 18 december 2015 and the council subsequently adopted its decision on the signing of the draft agreement on 11 april 2016. i voted in favour of the report, as the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is necessary for the ratification of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members for which croatia has hitherto had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. following negotiations with uruguay, the draft agreement was initialled in nairobi on 18 december 2015 and the council subsequently adopted its decision on the signing of the draft agreement on 11 april 2015. i voted in favour of the report, as the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is necessary for the ratification of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members in respect of which croatia has so far had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. following negotiations with uruguay, the draft agreement was initialled in nairobi on 18 december 2015 and the council subsequently adopted its decision on the signing of the draft agreement on 11 april 2015. i voted in favour of the report, as the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is necessary for the ratification of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ i have accepted my colleague's recommendation to include croatia in the additional protocol to the eu-uruguay gatt agreement. the european parliament is to give its consent to the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights in respect of the concessional lists of croatia in order to establish a possible compensatory adjustment. this adjustment had to be made as the rate of increase of the customs tariff level resulting from the transition to the eu external tariff system exceeds the level undertaken by croatia in the wto.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members in respect of which croatia has hitherto had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. following negotiations with uruguay, the draft agreement was initialled in nairobi on 18 december 2015 and the council subsequently adopted its decision on the signing of the draft agreement on 11 april 2015. i voted in favour of the report, as the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is necessary for the ratification of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members in respect of which croatia has so far had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. following negotiations with uruguay, the draft agreement was initialled in nairobi on 18 december 2015 and the council subsequently adopted its decision on the signing of the draft agreement on 11 april 2015. i voted in favour of the report, as the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is necessary for the ratification of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. croatia has thus adopted the eu external tariff system, which has resulted in the modification of the concessions to the eastern republic of uruguay in its concessions list. in this case, the commission opened negotiations on the basis of a mandate from the council of 15 july 2013, which resulted in an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters with uruguay, initialled in nairobi on 18 december 2015. the council adopted its decision on the signing of the agreement on 11 april 2016, subject to the assent of the european parliament. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the customs union of the european union was enlarged by the accession of the republic of croatia. consequently, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union is obliged to open negotiations with wto members in respect of which croatia has hitherto had a so-called preferential tariff list. this becomes necessary if the tariff level resulting from accession to the union tariff system is increased for this reason beyond the level agreed by the acceding country in the wto. following negotiations with uruguay, the draft agreement was initialled in nairobi on 18 december 2015 and the council subsequently adopted its decision on the signing of the draft agreement on 11 april 2015. i voted in favour of the report, as the european parliament's agreement to this council decision is necessary for the ratification of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ the author of the report considers that the european parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. i agreed with him.
in writing. ‒ lazaros stavrou lazarou has been a member of the court of auditors since 2010. at the end of his term of office, the council intends to appoint mr lazarou for a further term, subject to consultation of the european parliament. the committee on budgetary control reported that it had assessed the competence of the proposed candidate and heard the candidate at its meeting of 5 september 2016. on the basis of the foregoing, it proposes that parliament give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i supported the nomination of the candidate in view of his professional background and qualifications and the outcome of his previous interviews.
in writing. ‒ joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo, member of the portuguese court of auditors, who is to be appointed by the council as a member of the european court of auditors, subject to consultation with the european parliament. the committee on budgetary control reported that it had assessed the competence of the proposed candidate and heard the candidate at its meeting of 5 september 2016. in the light of the foregoing, it proposes that parliament give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i supported the nomination of the candidate in view of his professional background and qualifications and the outcome of his previous interviews.
in writing. ‒ the council intends to appoint leo brincat, a former minister in several previous maltese governments, as a member of the european court of auditors, subject to consultation with the european parliament. the committee on budgetary control reported that it had assessed the competence of the proposed candidate and heard the candidate at its meeting of 5 september 2016. on the basis of all this, it supported the nomination of the nominee by a narrow majority, but did not take a position on whether parliament should express a favourable or unfavourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors. i supported the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the nomination of the candidate in view of his professional background and qualifications and the outcome of his previous interviews.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 of the european parliament and of the council on statistics relating to the external trade of the eu with third countries. the amendments introduced by the treaty of lisbon called on the commission to adapt the rules for the adoption of decisions relating to trade policy to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. most legislation in the field of the common commercial policy has been brought into line with the new constitutional system. as the commission committed itself to implementing the second wave of comitology adjustments by the end of the 7th parliamentary term, it was proposed to amend the regulation on community statistics, the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy to include a regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ on 12 march 2014, parliament adopted its position at first reading on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries, as regards the delegation of power and the implementing powers to be conferred on the commission with a view to adopting certain measures. the tripartite negotiations that followed were suspended after several rounds pending the adoption of a new interinstitutional agreement on improving the quality of legislation. following the adoption of that agreement in december 2015, the negotiating groups of parliament and the council reached an agreement on the regulation in question. on 16 june 2016, the council adopted its position at first reading, confirming the agreement. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament endorse the position adopted by the council at first reading and thereby give effect to this regulation in accordance with the council's position. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by which parliament endorses the outcome of more than two years of legislative preparatory work in the council, in first reading, and through several fora and rounds of interinstitutional consultation. the draft law reflects the institutional changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon and the amendments to the comitology rules necessitated by the requirement of 'better law-making', on the basis of the union's competence in international trade and statistical reporting.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the amendments introduced by the treaty of lisbon and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission was invited to adapt the rules for the adoption of decisions on trade policy to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices since the 1970s. in 1990, the council adopted a directive laying down a procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices paid by industrial end-users; this does not, however, apply to household consumers. the increasing complexity of the internal energy market and the lack of legally binding rules on reporting have made it increasingly difficult to obtain reliable and up-to-date data on natural gas and electricity prices, in particular for the retail sector. the report aims to maintain the quality of the electricity and natural gas price surveys for the household sector, to provide a broad picture of the market and to maintain the high quality of flood data. the proposal would not impose any additional burden on reporting authorities and would continue to be carried out by the competent national authorities. the purpose of this report is to clarify the objectives and to make certain provisions clear to reporting authorities and companies.
in writing. the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices since the 1970s. in 1990, the council adopted a directive laying down a procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices paid by industrial end-users; this does not, however, apply to household consumers. the increasing complexity of the internal energy market and the lack of legally binding rules on reporting have made it increasingly difficult to obtain reliable and up-to-date data on natural gas and electricity prices, in particular for the retail sector. the report aims to maintain the quality of the electricity and natural gas price surveys for the household sector, to provide a broad picture of the market and to maintain the high quality of flood data. the proposal would not impose any additional burden on reporting authorities and would continue to be carried out by the competent national authorities. the purpose of this report is to clarify the objectives and to make certain provisions clear to reporting authorities and companies.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices since the 1970s. in 1990, the council adopted a directive laying down a procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices paid by industrial end-users; this does not, however, apply to household consumers. the lack of legally binding rules on reporting in the increasingly complex internal energy market has made it increasingly difficult to obtain reliable and up-to-date data on natural gas and electricity prices, in particular for the retail sector. the report aims to maintain the quality of the electricity and natural gas price surveys for the household sector, to provide a broad picture of the market and to maintain the high quality of flood data. the proposal would not impose any additional burden on reporting authorities and would continue to be carried out by the competent national authorities. the purpose of this report is to clarify the objectives and to make certain provisions clear to reporting authorities and companies. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices since the 1970s. in 1990, the council adopted a directive laying down a procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices paid by industrial end-users; this does not, however, apply to household consumers. the increasing complexity of the internal energy market and the lack of legally binding rules on reporting have made it increasingly difficult to obtain reliable and up-to-date data on natural gas and electricity prices, in particular for the retail sector. the report aims to maintain the quality of the electricity and natural gas price surveys for the household sector, to provide a broad picture of the market and to maintain the high quality of flood data. the proposal would not impose any additional burden on reporting authorities and would continue to be carried out by the competent national authorities. the purpose of this report is to clarify the objectives and to make certain provisions clear to reporting authorities and companies.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices since the 1970s. in 1990, the council adopted a directive which set out a procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices paid by industrial end-users, but this does not apply to household consumers. the increasing complexity of the internal energy market and the lack of legally binding rules on reporting have made it increasingly difficult to obtain reliable and up-to-date data on natural gas and electricity prices, in particular for the retail sector. the report aims to maintain the quality of the electricity and natural gas price surveys for the household sector, to provide a broad picture of the market and to maintain the high quality of flood data. the proposal would not impose any additional burden on reporting authorities and would continue to be carried out by the competent national authorities. the purpose of this report is to clarify the objectives and to make certain provisions clear to reporting authorities and companies.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices since the 1970s. in 1990, the council adopted a directive which set out a procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices paid by industrial end-users, but this does not apply to household consumers. the increasing complexity of the internal energy market and the lack of legally binding rules on reporting have made it increasingly difficult to obtain reliable and up-to-date data on natural gas and electricity prices, in particular for the retail sector. the report aims to maintain the quality of the electricity and natural gas price surveys for the household sector, to provide a broad picture of the market and to maintain the high quality of flood data. the proposal would not impose any additional burden on reporting authorities and would continue to be carried out by the competent national authorities. the purpose of this report is to clarify the objectives and to make certain provisions clear to reporting authorities and companies.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices since the 1970s. in 1990, the council adopted a directive laying down a procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices paid by industrial end-users; this does not, however, apply to household consumers. the lack of legally binding rules on reporting in the increasingly complex internal energy market has made it increasingly difficult to obtain reliable and up-to-date data on natural gas and electricity prices, in particular for the retail sector. the report aims to maintain the quality of the electricity and natural gas price surveys for the household sector, to provide a broad picture of the market and to maintain the high quality of flood data. the proposal would not impose any additional burden on reporting authorities and would continue to be carried out by the competent national authorities. the purpose of this report is to clarify the objectives and to make certain provisions clear to reporting authorities and companies.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council that a regulation be adopted repealing directive 2008/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices and on a community procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices charged to industrial end-users. the committee on industry, research and energy's report recommends that parliament approve the commission's proposal at first reading, subject to certain amendments. i voted for the motion to pass.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote because i considered the report to be a report of principle. european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices should be established or made compulsory, as they already exist for industrial prices. nevertheless, because of the rapporteur's personality alone (his group is against eu and integration), i believe that the subject should be examined in more depth. i believe that in this and many other areas, we can only achieve results at eu level through stronger integration. whether it's comparability of energy prices or something else. i agree that comprehensive, comparable and timely data can be a serious check for member states.
in writing. ‒ the major changes of recent years, such as new technologies, fluctuating raw material prices or the rapid expansion of renewable electricity generation, have fundamentally changed the european energy market. the report aims to achieve three objectives. firstly, a union-wide electricity market should be established, providing clear price signals for new investments. secondly, we need to create a european infrastructure for secure energy supply. third, regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, in particular with regard to the development of new energy generation equipment, interconnectors and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market. achieving these objectives is in europe's common interest, as the integration of electricity markets will improve the secure, cost-effective and environmentally sound supply of energy. it is important that the overall structure of the member states' national energy structure and energy supply is respected throughout the development of the new strategy. the efficient use of energy storage, network development, the construction of appropriate interconnectors and the widest possible use of renewable sources are essential to the completion of the internal market. better integration and coordination of electricity markets holds many opportunities to achieve common european objectives for a safer, more cost-effective and sustainable energy supply.
in writing. major changes in recent years, such as new technologies, fluctuating commodity prices or the rapid expansion of renewable electricity generation, have fundamentally changed the european energy market. the report aims to achieve three objectives. firstly, a union-wide electricity market should be established, providing clear price signals for new investments. secondly, we need to create a european infrastructure for secure energy supply. third, regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, in particular with regard to the development of new energy generation equipment, interconnectors and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market. achieving these objectives is in europe's common interest, as the integration of electricity markets will improve the secure, cost-effective and environmentally sound supply of energy. it is important that the overall structure of the member states' national energy structure and energy supply is respected throughout the development of the new strategy. the efficient use of energy storage, network development, the construction of appropriate interconnectors and the widest possible use of renewable sources are essential to the completion of the internal market. better integration and coordination of electricity markets holds many opportunities to achieve common european objectives for a safer, more cost-effective and sustainable energy supply.
in writing. ‒ the major changes of recent years, such as new technologies, fluctuating raw material prices or the rapid expansion of renewable electricity generation, have fundamentally changed the european energy market. the report aims to achieve three objectives. firstly, a union-wide electricity market should be established, providing clear price signals for new investments. secondly, we need to create a european infrastructure for secure energy supply. third, regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, in particular with regard to the development of new energy generation equipment, interconnectors and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market. achieving these objectives is in europe's common interest, as the integration of electricity markets will improve the secure, cost-effective and environmentally sound supply of energy. it is important that the overall structure of the member states' national energy structure and energy supply is respected throughout the development of the new strategy. the efficient use of energy storage, network development, the construction of appropriate interconnectors and the widest possible use of renewable sources are essential to the completion of the internal market. better integration and coordination of electricity markets holds many opportunities to achieve common european objectives for a safer, more cost-effective and sustainable energy supply. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the major changes of recent years, such as new technologies, fluctuating raw material prices or the rapid expansion of renewable electricity generation, have fundamentally changed the european energy market. the report aims to achieve three objectives. firstly, a union-wide electricity market should be established, providing clear price signals for new investments. secondly, we need to create a european infrastructure for secure energy supply. third, regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, in particular with regard to the development of new energy generation equipment, interconnectors and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market. achieving these objectives is in europe's common interest, as the integration of electricity markets will improve the secure, cost-effective and environmentally sound supply of energy. it is important that the overall structure of the member states' national energy structure and energy supply is respected throughout the development of the new strategy. the efficient use of energy storage, network development, the construction of appropriate interconnectors and the widest possible use of renewable sources are essential to the completion of the internal market. better integration and coordination of electricity markets holds many opportunities to achieve common european objectives for a safer, more cost-effective and sustainable energy supply.
in writing. ‒ the major changes of recent years, such as new technologies, fluctuating raw material prices or the rapid expansion of renewable electricity generation, have fundamentally changed the european energy market. the report aims to achieve three objectives. firstly, a union-wide electricity market should be established, providing clear price signals for new investments. secondly, we need to create a european infrastructure for secure energy supply. third, regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, in particular with regard to the development of new energy generation equipment, interconnectors and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market. achieving these objectives is in europe's common interest, as the integration of electricity markets will improve the secure, cost-effective and environmentally sound supply of energy. it is important that the overall structure of the member states' national energy structure and energy supply is respected throughout the development of the new strategy. the efficient use of energy storage, network development, the construction of appropriate interconnectors and the widest possible use of renewable sources are essential to the completion of the internal market. better integration and coordination of electricity markets holds many opportunities to achieve common european objectives for a safer, more cost-effective and sustainable energy supply.
in writing. ‒ the major changes of recent years, such as new technologies, fluctuating raw material prices or the rapid expansion of renewable electricity generation, have fundamentally changed the european energy market. the report aims to achieve three objectives. firstly, a union-wide electricity market should be established, providing clear price signals for new investments. secondly, the creation of a european infrastructure for secure energy supply. third, regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, in particular with regard to the development of new energy generation equipment, interconnectors and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market. achieving these objectives is in europe's common interest, as the integration of electricity markets will improve the secure, cost-effective and environmentally sound supply of energy. it is important that the overall structure of the member states' national energy structure and energy supply is respected throughout the development of the new strategy. the efficient use of energy storage, network development, the construction of appropriate interconnectors and the widest possible use of renewable sources are essential to the completion of the internal market. better integration and coordination of electricity markets holds many opportunities to achieve common european objectives for a safer, more cost-effective and sustainable energy supply.
in writing. ‒ the major changes of recent years, such as new technologies, fluctuating raw material prices or the rapid expansion of renewable electricity generation, have fundamentally changed the european energy market. the report aims to achieve three objectives. firstly, a union-wide electricity market should be established, providing clear price signals for new investments. secondly, we need to create a european infrastructure for secure energy supply. third, regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, in particular with regard to the development of new energy generation equipment, interconnectors and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market. achieving these objectives is in europe's common interest, as the integration of electricity markets will improve the secure, cost-effective and environmentally sound supply of energy. it is important that the overall structure of the member states' national energy structure and energy supply is respected throughout the development of the new strategy. the efficient use of energy storage, network development, the construction of appropriate interconnectors and the widest possible use of renewable sources are essential to the completion of the internal market. better integration and coordination of electricity markets holds many opportunities to achieve common european objectives for a safer, more cost-effective and sustainable energy supply.
in writing. ‒ on 15 july 2015, the european commission published its consultative communication on european electricity systems, launching a public consultation on what the newly created electricity market should look like in order to achieve the energy policy objectives of security of supply, environmental sustainability and value for money. better integration and coordination of electricity markets holds many opportunities to achieve common european objectives of a secure, cost-effective and environmentally sustainable energy supply, but the design of energy markets, in particular electricity markets, is still strongly nationalised. in its report, the committee on industry, research and energy proposes the adoption of a resolution which is critical of but fundamentally supportive of the commission's proposed package of measures in this area. i supported the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that our energy supply objectives as set out in the eu treaty can only be achieved through closer integration of the energy market. it is important to ensure a secure, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy supply for the whole of the eu. i agree with the report that to achieve climate and energy objectives, the energy system of the future must be more flexible, so we need to invest in all four flexibility solutions: flexible generation, grid development, demand response and storage. i think it is important in the redesign of the energy market not only to aim at full market integration but also to promote renewable, safe energy production and not fossil or nuclear energy production in any way. i have to note here the unfortunate fact that hungary has not issued a permit for wind power plants for 10 years, citing the lack of storage capacity and technologies, and imposes an extra tax on solar systems. so i think it's doubtful that we'll reach the 13% renewable target by 2020. i believe that we need to encourage the development of renewable (local) energy sources in the member states and that we need to devote more resources to r&d&i in energy storage.
in writing. ‒ on 15 july 2015, the european commission published a number of documents on the european internal market, including the consultative communication on european electricity systems discussed in this report. i have supported the present final document in accordance with the position of the group.
in writing. ‒ the european union devotes 59% of its total natural gas consumption and 12% of its oil consumption to heating and cooling, while every 1% increase in energy efficiency reduces natural gas imports by 2.6%. the union is therefore focusing on the development of a heating and cooling strategy to achieve its climate targets and reduce its dependence on energy suppliers. heating and cooling our buildings consumes nearly 35% of our total energy consumption, but with serious renovation work, this could be significantly reduced. the stock of inadequately effective walls without proper insulation and single-ply windows continues to be high. to this end, the energy performance of buildings directive was created, which sets mandatory minimum energy efficiency criteria for new investments. in industry, insulation and efficiency improvements can achieve lower emission reductions, as heating to the appropriate temperature is often an integral part of the manufacturing process. however, the objective is to decarbonise the processes as completely as possible. however, for processes that are very hot, heating with electricity from renewable sources is not an option, so fossil fuels are needed. the union's priority is to make the best possible use of the resulting heat surplus, or rather, the resulting cold surplus. finally, it is important to highlight the role of lng import terminals as district heating sources.
in writing. the european union devotes 59% of its total natural gas consumption and 12% of its oil consumption to heating and cooling, while every 1% increase in energy efficiency reduces natural gas imports by 2.6%. the union is therefore paying particular attention to the development of a heating and cooling strategy in order to achieve its climate objectives and reduce its dependence on energy suppliers. heating and cooling our buildings consumes nearly 35% of our total energy consumption, but with serious renovation work, this could be significantly reduced. the stock of inefficient walls without proper insulation and single-ply windows continues to be high. to this end, the energy performance of buildings directive was created, which sets mandatory minimum energy efficiency criteria for new investments. in industry, insulation and efficiency improvements can achieve lower emission reductions, as heating to the appropriate temperature is often an integral part of the manufacturing process. however, the objective is to decarbonise the processes as completely as possible. however, for processes that are very hot, heating with electricity from renewable sources is not an option, so fossil fuels are needed. the union's priority is to make the best possible use of the resulting heat surplus, or rather, the resulting cold surplus. finally, it is important to highlight the role of lng import terminals as district heating sources.
in writing. ‒ the european union devotes 59% of its total natural gas consumption and 12% of its oil consumption to heating and cooling, while every 1% increase in energy efficiency reduces natural gas imports by 2.6%. the union is therefore focusing on the development of a heating and cooling strategy to achieve its climate targets and reduce its dependence on energy suppliers. heating and cooling our buildings consumes nearly 35% of our total energy consumption, but with serious renovation work, this could be significantly reduced. the stock of inadequately effective walls without proper insulation and single-ply windows continues to be high. to this end, the energy performance of buildings directive was created, which sets mandatory minimum energy efficiency criteria for new investments. in industry, insulation and efficiency improvements can achieve lower emission reductions, as heating to the appropriate temperature is often an integral part of the manufacturing process. however, the objective is to decarbonise the processes as completely as possible. however, for processes that are really high temperature, there is no solution for heating with electricity from renewable sources, so fossil fuels are needed. the union's priority is to make the best possible use of the resulting heat surplus, or rather, the resulting cold surplus. finally, it is important to highlight the role of lng import terminals as district heating sources. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union devotes 59% of its total natural gas consumption and 12% of its oil consumption to heating and cooling, while every 1% increase in energy efficiency reduces natural gas imports by 2.6%. the union is therefore paying particular attention to the development of a heating and cooling strategy in order to achieve its climate objectives and reduce its dependence on energy suppliers. heating and cooling our buildings consumes nearly 35% of our total energy consumption, but with serious renovation work, this could be significantly reduced. the stock of inadequately effective walls without proper insulation and single-ply windows continues to be high. to this end, the energy performance of buildings directive was created, which sets mandatory minimum energy efficiency criteria for new investments. in industry, insulation and efficiency improvements can achieve lower emission reductions, as heating to the appropriate temperature is often an integral part of the manufacturing process. however, the objective is to decarbonise the processes as completely as possible. however, for processes that are very hot, heating with electricity from renewable sources is not an option, so fossil fuels are needed. the union's priority is to make the best possible use of the resulting heat surplus, or rather, the resulting cold surplus. finally, it is important to highlight the role of lng import terminals as district heating sources.
in writing. ‒ the european union devotes 59% of its total natural gas consumption and 12% of its oil consumption to heating and cooling, while every 1% increase in energy efficiency reduces natural gas imports by 2.6%. the union is therefore paying particular attention to the development of a heating and cooling strategy in order to achieve its climate objectives and reduce its dependence on energy suppliers. heating and cooling our buildings consumes nearly 35% of our total energy consumption, but with serious renovation work, this could be significantly reduced. the stock of inefficient walls without proper insulation and single-ply windows continues to be high. to this end, the energy performance of buildings directive was created, which sets mandatory minimum energy efficiency criteria for new investments. in industry, insulation and efficiency improvements can achieve lower emission reductions, as heating to the appropriate temperature is often an integral part of the manufacturing process. however, the objective is to decarbonise the processes as completely as possible. however, for processes that are very hot, heating with electricity from renewable sources is not an option, so fossil fuels are needed. the union's priority is to make the best possible use of the resulting heat surplus, or rather, the resulting cold surplus. finally, it is important to highlight the role of lng import terminals as district heating sources.
in writing. ‒ the european union devotes 59% of its total natural gas consumption and 12% of its oil consumption to heating and cooling, while every 1% increase in energy efficiency reduces natural gas imports by 2.6%. the union is therefore paying particular attention to the development of a heating and cooling strategy in order to achieve its climate objectives and reduce its dependence on energy suppliers. heating and cooling our buildings consumes nearly 35% of our total energy consumption, but with serious renovation work, this could be significantly reduced. the stock of inefficient walls without proper insulation and single-ply windows continues to be high. to this end, the energy performance of buildings directive was created, which sets mandatory minimum energy efficiency criteria for new investments. in industry, insulation and efficiency improvements can achieve lower emission reductions, as heating to the appropriate temperature is often an integral part of the manufacturing process. however, the objective is to decarbonise the processes as completely as possible. however, for processes that are very hot, heating with electricity from renewable sources is not an option, so fossil fuels are needed. the union's priority is to make the best possible use of the resulting heat surplus, or rather, the resulting cold surplus. finally, it is important to highlight the role of lng import terminals as district heating sources.
in writing. ‒ the european union devotes 59% of its total natural gas consumption and 12% of its oil consumption to heating and cooling, while every 1% increase in energy efficiency reduces natural gas imports by 2.6%. the union is therefore focusing on the development of a heating and cooling strategy to achieve its climate targets and reduce its dependence on energy suppliers. heating and cooling our buildings consumes nearly 35% of our total energy consumption, but with serious renovation work, this could be significantly reduced. the stock of inefficient walls without proper insulation and single-ply windows continues to be high. to this end, the energy performance of buildings directive was created, which sets mandatory minimum energy efficiency criteria for new investments. in industry, insulation and efficiency improvements can achieve lower emission reductions, as heating to the appropriate temperature is often an integral part of the manufacturing process. however, the objective is to decarbonise the processes as completely as possible. however, for processes that are really high temperature, there is no solution for heating with electricity from renewable sources, so fossil fuels are needed. the union's priority is to make the best possible use of the resulting heat surplus, or rather, the resulting cold surplus. finally, it is important to highlight the role of lng import terminals as district heating sources.
in writing. ‒ on 16 february this year, the commission published its communication 'a european union heat strategy'. the draft resolution of the committee on industry, research and energy on the communication focuses on three main issues. notes that in the countries that joined the union after 2004, thermal renovation of buildings is the easiest way to ensure that energy is used more efficiently and that carbon emissions are significantly reduced; it also urges financial measures to this end. it points out that cooling is the biggest problem in the mediterranean countries of europe due to the gradual warming, and that the solution may be to use suitable architectural solutions, insulation and reversible heat pumps that remove heat in hot weather and absorb heat in cold weather. it eventually reaches the sun, which is a significant source of heat, but which is not properly exploited by cells that heat water or generate electricity. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the importance of heating and cooling and the priorities for action have diverged across member states. overall, however, about 50% of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling. i therefore agree that in the countries that joined the union after 2004, the greatest potential for efficiency improvement lies in the thermal renovation of buildings. it's the easiest way to ensure that we're using energy more efficiently and significantly reducing carbon emissions. i think it's an important ratio that 1 percent energy savings will reduce natural gas imports by 2.6 percent, and i hope that, along with energy efficiency, the fossil ratio will also decrease dramatically. i also agree that the amount of money for the thermal renovation of entire housing estates, especially for buildings built with panel technology, should be significantly increased. in hungary, for example, where the tax burden is so high, the inhabitants have concrete problems with their livelihood, but modernization is a complex issue for them. i think the reversible heat pump system is good, particularly energy efficient, and has great potential for heating and cooling. i share the view that the heating and cooling sector should reflect the 2015 paris agreement on climate change (cop21) and can only hope that the heating and cooling sector will be based on 100% renewable energy sources by 2050 at the latest, in line with the union's energy and climate objectives. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the importance of heating and cooling varies from one member state to another. this means that the priority of the steps to be taken in these countries has diverged. it should also be emphasised that in the countries that joined the union after 2004, the greatest potential for efficiency improvements lies in the thermal renovation of buildings. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report submitted by the regional development committee is on the implementation of the thematic objective of improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. it calls on the member states to help smes develop, to simplify access to credit and to ensure greater coordination of all eu investment policies targeting smes. in addition, the report calls on the commission, together with the member states and the managing authorities, to encourage the creation of a network of universities, research centres, social and economic actors and public institutions to support the development of entrepreneurial skills. as a quarter of smes are currently engaged in external trade, the report recommends progress and appropriate support (through more efficient use of the structural and investment funds) in this area as well. increase the share of cohesion policy resources for smes to increase their international competitiveness. increased support for smes is an objective i agree with and voted for. at the same time, i would note that smes can only develop if aggregate demand in the economy increases.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the commission pays greater attention to good governance and quality public services. a transparent, consistent and innovative public procurement system is important for smes, and it is therefore important to remove as much as possible the obstacles to the participation of smes in tenders, to eliminate excessive bureaucratic burdens, to avoid imposing additional conditions at national level, while implementing as soon as possible the provisions of the existing legislative framework on dispute settlement in public procurement. at the same time, i do not believe that smes can help to integrate immigrants if they are given the right incentives.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on improving the competitiveness of smes. the report contains many useful ideas. smes can undoubtedly play an important role in europe's recovery, as some 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises, representing 99% of all businesses, make a significant contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and job creation. however, one paragraph of the report refers to the integration of refugees and migrants, for which, as the report explains, appropriate support and incentives to support the activities of small businesses can provide an innovative opportunity. the original contractual purpose of cohesion policy was to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions (article 174 tfeu). i cannot agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on improving the competitiveness of smes. the report contains many useful ideas. smes can undoubtedly play an important role in europe's recovery, as some 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises, representing 99% of all businesses, make a significant contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and job creation. however, one paragraph of the report refers to the integration of refugees and migrants, for which, as the report explains, appropriate support and incentives to support the activities of small businesses can provide an innovative opportunity. the original contractual purpose of cohesion policy was to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions (article 174 tfeu). i cannot agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on improving the competitiveness of smes. the report contains many useful ideas. smes can undoubtedly play an important role in europe's recovery, as some 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises, representing 99% of all businesses, make a significant contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and job creation. however, one paragraph of the report refers to the integration of refugees and migrants, for which, as the report explains, appropriate support and incentives to support the activities of small businesses can provide an innovative opportunity. the original contractual purpose of cohesion policy was to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions (article 174 tfeu). as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i cannot agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the overall report and congratulate the rapporteur on her work. smes are of immense importance to the economies of the eu regions, both in terms of employment, competitiveness and sustainable growth in the union. the europe 2020 strategy has as its fundamental objective the implementation of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. smes account for 85% of newly created jobs; 20.7 million smes account for 67% of private sector employment in the union, 30% of which is micro-enterprises. i therefore support any report that, by supporting cohesion policy, increases the competitiveness of businesses, especially smes. the eu's cohesion policy is the main instrument for investments that support the current and future growth of regions in the member states, including hungary. as smes received €70 billion in support from cohesion policy between 2007 and 2013, the aim is to double this share between 2014 and 2020 with our financial instruments. a business environment favourable to smes is necessary to achieve their objectives, to which, for example, re-manufacturing, recycling and eco-design would make a significant contribution, in order to move towards a circular economy. the eu's international commitments in areas such as climate change cooperation and neighbourhood policy offer concrete opportunities for smes, but this requires a more effective support framework and closer international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on improving the competitiveness of smes. the report contains many useful ideas. smes can undoubtedly play an important role in europe's recovery, as some 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises, representing 99% of all businesses, make a significant contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and job creation. however, one paragraph of the report refers to the integration of refugees and migrants, for which, as the report explains, appropriate support and incentives to support the activities of small businesses can provide an innovative opportunity. the original contractual purpose of cohesion policy was to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions (article 174 tfeu). i cannot agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on improving the competitiveness of smes. the report contains many useful ideas. smes can undoubtedly play an important role in europe's recovery, as some 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises, representing 99% of all businesses, make a significant contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and job creation. however, one paragraph of the report refers to the integration of refugees and migrants, for which, as the report explains, appropriate support and incentives to support the activities of small businesses can provide an innovative opportunity. the original contractual purpose of cohesion policy was to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions (article 174 tfeu). i cannot agree that cohesion funds, which are so important for european regions, should be used for migration-related purposes. it's time to recognize that mandatory admissions, resettlement, doesn't work. migrants and refugees should be helped in their country of origin, not brought to the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ each of the european structural and investment funds supports a thematic objective. increasing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is the objective of thematic objective 3. the draft resolution of the committee on regional development states that smes account for 85% of newly created jobs and that 20.7 million smes account for 67% of private sector employment in the union, 30% of which is provided by micro-enterprises. it recalls the ep's earlier statement that 'smes are the main engines of long-term european growth and sustainable job creation in the 28 member states' and its position during the negotiations on thematic objective 3. it shall take into account the financial instruments available to support the competitiveness of smes in the 2014-2020 programming period and the expected results. it reviews the specific operational programmes for the period 2007-13 for which the largest part of the funding (more than 80%) was spent on research, innovation and sme-related areas including the operational programme for economic development in hungary. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'improving the competitiveness of smes'. one of the thematic objectives of the investments under the european structural and investment funds is to increase the competitiveness of smes, the importance of which has been rightly emphasised in the report on several occasions. i agree with the report that simplifying european, national and regional regulations and facilitating access to credit is of paramount importance for the 23 million or so small and medium-sized enterprises in europe. given that the large number and variety of support programmes, the complexity of rules and procedures, indeed make it difficult for smes to have a wide access to european structural and investment funds, i welcome the call for the high level task force on simplification to come forward with concrete proposals on how to streamline these procedures. i also support the report's call to help smes overcome the barriers to accessing traditional banking services and to encourage the use of other financing options. as the report noted, any steps to improve the competitiveness of smes must of course be based on respect for human and labour rights and the highest possible level of environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ investments under the european structural and investment funds have as a common objective the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ at the september plenary session of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the alpine region, which is the fourth macro-regional strategy of the union. the eu strategy for the alpine region covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are eu member states, and two others in switzerland and lichtenstein. macro-regional strategies enable these countries to create strategic investments for the benefit of the whole region, taking into account the three-generation principle. the strategy is based on three pillars of development. the first pillar aims to increase the competitiveness and cohesion of the alpine region, including the promotion of sustainable and competitive tourism. the second pillar aims at improving accessibility, providing adequate transport, energy and ict infrastructure. the third pillar is about sustainability, environmental protection, biodiversity and the protection of ecosystems. the alpine macro-region has considerable potential which can be further exploited through cooperation between countries and regions.
in writing. ‒ at the september plenary session of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the alpine region, which is the fourth macro-regional strategy of the union. the eu strategy for the alpine region covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are eu member states, and two others in switzerland and lichtenstein. macro-regional strategies enable these countries to create strategic investments for the benefit of the whole region, taking into account the three-generation principle. the strategy is based on three pillars of development. the first pillar aims to increase the competitiveness and cohesion of the alpine region, including the promotion of sustainable and competitive tourism. the second pillar aims at improving accessibility, providing adequate transport, energy and ict infrastructure. the third pillar is about sustainability, environmental protection, biodiversity and the protection of ecosystems. the alpine macro-region has considerable potential which can be further exploited through cooperation between countries and regions. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ at the september plenary session of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the alpine region, which is the fourth macro-regional strategy of the union. the eu strategy for the alpine region covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are eu member states, and two others in switzerland and lichtenstein. macro-regional strategies enable these countries to create strategic investments for the benefit of the whole region, taking into account the three-generation principle. the strategy is based on three pillars of development. the first pillar aims to increase the competitiveness and cohesion of the alpine region, including the promotion of sustainable and competitive tourism. the second pillar aims at improving accessibility, providing adequate transport, energy and ict infrastructure. the third pillar is about sustainability, environmental protection, biodiversity and the protection of ecosystems. the alpine macro-region has considerable potential which can be further exploited through cooperation between countries and regions.
in writing. ‒ i have adopted the report on the eu strategy for the alpine region. the alpine region has significant economic potential in the eu, as the macro-strategy affects some 80 million people in 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are eu member states (austria, france, germany, italy and slovenia). it is particularly welcome that an important part of the strategy is the development of the labour market through the improvement of the skills of the workforce and the creation of new jobs in the green economy. funding from existing union sources such as cosme, horizon 2020 or erasmus+ is needed to use new technologies in key areas of the economy, based on innovation and smart specialisation strategies. these resources can greatly help to create new jobs in the region. the report also focuses on the promotion of economic activities in the region by smes active in agriculture, tourism and trade. these businesses are the main source of employment in the alps, but further diversification is needed. similarly, investment in digital infrastructure should be treated as a priority and fast and efficient broadband access should be provided to the population of areas far from large urban centres. this enables digital and online services such as e-commerce, digital market channels, teleworking and other opportunities.
in writing. ‒ at the september plenary session of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the alpine region, which is the fourth macro-regional strategy of the union. the eu strategy for the alpine region covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are eu member states, and two others in switzerland and lichtenstein. macro-regional strategies enable these countries to create strategic investments for the benefit of the whole region, taking into account the three-generation principle. the strategy is based on three pillars of development. the first pillar aims to increase the competitiveness and cohesion of the alpine region, including the promotion of sustainable and competitive tourism. the second pillar aims at improving accessibility, providing adequate transport, energy and ict infrastructure. the third pillar is about sustainability, environmental protection, biodiversity and the protection of ecosystems. the alpine macro-region has considerable potential which can be further exploited through cooperation between countries and regions.
in writing. ‒ at the september plenary session of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the alpine region, which is the fourth macro-regional strategy of the union. the eu strategy for the alpine region covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are eu member states, and two others in switzerland and lichtenstein. macro-regional strategies enable these countries to create strategic investments for the benefit of the whole region, taking into account the three-generation principle. the strategy is based on three pillars of development. the first pillar aims to increase the competitiveness and cohesion of the alpine region, including the promotion of sustainable and competitive tourism. the second pillar aims at improving accessibility, providing adequate transport, energy and ict infrastructure. the third pillar is about sustainability, environmental protection, biodiversity and the protection of ecosystems. the alpine macro-region has considerable potential which can be further exploited through cooperation between countries and regions.
in writing. ‒ the commission presented the action plan for the eu strategy for the alpine region in july 2015. it is the fourth eu macro-regional strategy, following the eu strategies for the baltic sea region, the danube region and the adriatic and ionian region. the draft resolution of the committee on regional development analyses this strategy. it underlines that the eu strategy for the alpine region provides the opportunity for the countries of the region to invest in projects with an impact on the whole of the union and not just at a regional level. the strategy will allow the development of new forms of multilevel governance, based in the regions but with the participation of the eu institutions. the draft strategy sets out the main proposals and priorities under three pillars: i. improving the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the alpine region. ii. providing accessibility and transport connections for the people living in the alpine region. iii. ensuring sustainability in the alps: protecting the alpine heritage and promoting the sustainable use of natural and cultural resources. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ in december 2013, the european council invited the commission to present an eu strategy for the alpine region. the commission has responded to the call, which is the fourth eu macro-regional strategy, building on the experience gained in the eu strategies for the baltic sea region, the danube region and the adriatic and ionian region. the eu strategy for the alpine region covers 80 million people and 48 regions in 7 different countries, five of which are eu member states (italy, france, slovenia, austria, germany) and the other two are switzerland and liechtenstein. there is already active cooperation between smaller regions, but the eu strategy for the alpine region offers the opportunity to create strategic investments for the benefit of the whole region. that is why i voted in favour of the report. the region can solve its transport and logistics problems along the pillars of the common strategy, but only if they coordinate their ideas from the local level. they can also strengthen their competitiveness and cohesion, and last but not least, ensure sustainability. i hope that the danube region will be able to exploit its development potential in the same way as the alpine region, which is expected to be successful.
in writing. ‒ following initial steps taken by the alpine region at the end of 2011, the european council in december 2013 invited the commission to present an eu strategy for the alpine region. the commission responded to the call and submitted an action plan for the strategy in july 2015. this is the fourth eu macro-regional strategy, building on the experience gained in the eu strategies for the baltic sea region, the danube region and the adriatic and ionian region. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the document is a report on the eu emergency fund for africa initiative, which seeks to take initiatives focusing on migration and its root causes. an important detail of the text is that ngos should be given the maximum opportunity to participate in the development of migration reception, return and other strategies, in decisions on the use of the financial framework of the fund. the rationale for this is highly questionable after the exposure of the activities of the soros foundations in this area. the report states that regional funds cannot be used for border protection (even for countries with schengen borders) and cannot be used to improve security. and in effect, he's saying that the safety of the local population, the sense of safety, the public safety in general, is not important if this is an anti-immigrant policy. i voted against the report because of all that.
in writing. ‒ i consider the adoption of the report to be very important and i voted in favour of it, as the emergency fund can contribute to addressing the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. the document draws attention to the importance of addressing the causes of migration and supporting those in need, as mass migration poses a new humanitarian and security challenge to europe. a transparent strategy that works with ngos and leaders with significant local knowledge to deliver more effective assistance will hopefully be able to provide protection for those in need in their own country. the report also draws attention to the fact that eu migration policies should focus primarily on addressing the root causes of migration, involving ngos and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i consider the adoption of the report to be very important and i voted in favour of it, as the emergency fund can contribute to addressing the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. the document draws attention to the importance of addressing the causes of migration and supporting those in need, as mass migration poses a new humanitarian and security challenge to europe. a transparent strategy that works with ngos and leaders with significant local knowledge to deliver more effective assistance will hopefully be able to provide protection for those in need in their own country. the report also draws attention to the fact that eu migration policies should focus primarily on addressing the root causes of migration, involving ngos and civil society.
in writing. i consider the adoption of the report to be very important and i voted in favour of it, as the emergency fund can contribute to addressing the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunity, equal opportunities, security and development. the document draws attention to the importance of addressing the causes of migration and supporting those in need, as mass migration poses a new humanitarian and security challenge to europe. a transparent strategy that works with ngos and leaders with significant local knowledge to deliver more effective assistance will hopefully be able to provide protection for those in need in their own country. the report also draws attention to the fact that eu migration policies should focus primarily on addressing the root causes of migration, involving ngos and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i consider the adoption of the report to be very important and i voted in favour of it, as the emergency fund can contribute to addressing the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. the document draws attention to the importance of addressing the causes of migration and supporting those in need, as mass migration poses a new humanitarian and security challenge to europe. a transparent strategy that works with ngos and leaders with significant local knowledge to deliver more effective assistance will hopefully be able to provide protection for those in need in their own country. the report also draws attention to the fact that eu migration policies should focus primarily on addressing the root causes of migration, involving ngos and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i consider the adoption of the report to be very important and i voted in favour of it, as the emergency fund can contribute to addressing the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. the document draws attention to the importance of addressing the causes of migration and supporting those in need, as mass migration poses a new humanitarian and security challenge to europe. a transparent strategy that works with ngos and leaders with significant local knowledge to deliver more effective assistance will hopefully be able to provide protection for those in need in their own country. the report also draws attention to the fact that eu migration policies should focus primarily on addressing the root causes of migration, involving ngos and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted on a report that is important for development and humanitarian aid. the emergency fund was established to promote stability in africa and to contribute to the proper management of mass immigration. it should be borne in mind that eu migration policies should focus primarily on the root causes of migration and have as a main objective to investigate and address the root causes of poverty in countries of origin. union migration policies should aim to create peace and stability and to strengthen economic development, with a view to ensuring a healthy life for all at all ages, achieving gender equality and the emancipation of all women and girls, and working more closely with third countries to promote the return and reintegration of migrants, including highly skilled migrants, to their countries of origin, and to facilitate voluntary return and readmission in a way that enhances their opportunities. africa continues to have a very high population growth rate and a slowly declining fertility rate, which will lead to a sharp increase in the young working-age population in the near future. we need to address this through aid, so that it brings social and economic benefits to the continent, and not leads to mass migration.
in writing. ‒ i consider the adoption of the report to be very important and i voted in favour of it, as the emergency fund can contribute to addressing the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. the document draws attention to the importance of addressing the causes of migration and supporting those in need, as mass migration poses a new humanitarian and security challenge to europe. a transparent strategy that works with ngos and leaders with significant local knowledge to deliver more effective assistance will hopefully be able to provide protection for those in need in their own country. the report also draws attention to the fact that eu migration policies should focus primarily on addressing the root causes of migration, involving ngos and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i consider the adoption of the report to be very important and i voted in favour of it, as the emergency fund can contribute to addressing the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. the document draws attention to the importance of addressing the causes of migration and supporting those in need, as mass migration poses a new humanitarian and security challenge to europe. a transparent strategy that works with ngos and leaders with significant local knowledge to deliver more effective assistance will hopefully be able to provide protection for those in need in their own country. the report also draws attention to the fact that eu migration policies should focus primarily on addressing the root causes of migration, involving ngos and civil society.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on development was inspired by the current developments in the migration crisis. the emergency fund for stability in africa and addressing the root causes of irregular migration was established at the valencian summit on migration on 11-12 november 2015 and aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunity, equal opportunities, security and development. it focuses on five priority areas: 1) unlocking the benefits of migration; 2) legal migration and mobility; 3) protection and asylum; 4) preventing and combating illegal migration; 5) return, readmission and reintegration. the draft resolution takes account of financial possibilities, the role of civil society, non-governmental organisations, local authorities and international organisations, extends funding to the least developed countries, calls for transparency and clarity to achieve the objectives more effectively, and stresses the importance of coherence in eu policies and commitment to human rights. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, mainly in the hope that it would induce changes that would allow the fund to better fulfil its fundamental objective of addressing the causes of mass migration at the root. i also hope that this will lead the member states to recognise their responsibility and to contribute the €1.8 billion voted and committed to the operation of the fund (as opposed to the minimum member state transfer of just €81 million that has been made so far). however, i agree with most of my colleagues in the ep that it is wrong to use the fund's resources for border control, in complete contradiction to its original purpose. i also regret that the fund is not part of the eu budget and therefore not subject to parliament's control; i am convinced that correcting this situation by means of this decision would also remedy the above problems of payment and distribution of funds.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the eu emergency fund for africa, signed by the president of the commission and 25 eu member states, as well as norway and switzerland, was initiated by the european and african partners at the valletta summit on migration on 12 november 2015 with the main objective of promoting stability in the region and contributing to better management of migration. the specific purpose of the emergency fund is to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. i supported this document.
in writing. ‒ in recent decades, the reconciliation of work, private and family life has been recognised as a fundamental right, but further progress is needed to ensure that everyone can achieve the right balance between work and private life. in december 2015, the commission published a roadmap entitled 'a new start: tackling the challenges of work-life balance for working parents' with the aim of increasing women's participation in the labour market by modernising the existing eu legal and political framework and adapting the current labour market. the joint draft report by the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, while welcoming the commission's initiative, takes the view that improving the work-life balance requires action at eu level. accordingly, it urges the revision of directive 92/85/eec on maternity leave for pregnant workers, the review of the implementation of directive 2010/18/eu on parental leave and the adoption of a directive on paternity leave and a directive on carers' leave. the former would be to ensure that men take their share of caregiving duties, and the latter to enable workers to care for their relatives. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ in order not to contradict myself due to my duty as vice-president, in cases where the faction votes differently from the hungarian representatives in the roll-call votes, i will not participate directly in the vote. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on. i did the same thing in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which shows that the reconciliation of professional, private and family life has been recognised as a fundamental right over the past decades. i think it is very important to emphasise that there are many circumstances which can make it difficult for women to work - for example, if there are children, elderly people or other dependants in the family - since the responsibility for the family and the household is most often borne by women. as a result, they are often forced to work part-time or in precarious forms of employment, and this creates disparities in pay and pensions. i agree that there are several main reasons why the framework for achieving work-life balance needs to be modernised at eu level and i therefore welcome the commission's initiative. i think that the hungarian government should also introduce more targeted measures to ensure that the work-life balance is maintained in practice.
in writing. ‒ in recent decades, the reconciliation of professional, private and family life has been recognised as a fundamental right. while initiatives to this end have been taken at both european and national level, this is still an area where further progress is needed to ensure that everyone can achieve the right work-life balance. this not only contributes to the well-being of the individual but also benefits society as a whole, in part because people who have a good work-life balance are more productive workers. i supported the group's position in the final vote.
mr. president, the people who have put the polish position on the agenda today have shown that they have not understood the message of brexit. the people of more and more countries are refusing to let their lives be governed by a centre in brussels in the spirit of a more europe, a deeper integration, rather than by a democratically elected parliament and government. the polish parliament is responsible for decisions which are referred to national competence by the treaties. they want to intervene in the organization of the norms of family life. they don't tolerate that in poland the christian teaching has a greater social impact than in most european countries. they don't accept it and they object to the fact that they want to sanction public blasphemy. it seems that today in the european union, only the religious sensitivity of muslims needs to be taken into account. in its call for poland to account, the charter of fundamental rights is constantly mentioned, as if it were not known that in lisbon the united kingdom and poland were exempted from its mandatory application. this parliament has twice dealt with the so-called situation in hungary, and this time with the situation in poland. as we heard from the communist mp, she's dismissing them. i am afraid that if there are still too many sanctions and orders here - and in other countries - you are on the best way to break up the european union.
it's a two-card draw. my dear colleague! you say that it must be put on a new footing or altered in some way, that a new chapter must be opened in the negotiations with turkey. an hour or two ago, in this room, we were discussing the violations in poland, and i can say the same about my own country, hungary. in your opinion, can we have two standards, that is, we send a clear message to turkey, but not to the european union?
it's a two-card draw. madam representative, you mentioned that you were happy to be part of this delegation. there's very, very little time until the 19th. and you also mentioned, of course, that there is no clear position on this issue within the member states of the european union, but - and this is a sincere question - what are you going to answer to a question that says, well, there are governments in member states that are behaving badly, but what are the other member states doing about these renegade member states?
madam president, the official keynote speaker at the un summit at the end of september will be zeid raad el-husszein, prince of jordan and un high commissioner for human rights, who in one of his recent speeches listed prime minister viktor orbán among the so-called 'populist' politicians whose ideology is close to the spirit of the islamic state. a few days later, luxembourg's foreign minister jean asselborn launched a similar unbridled attack on our prime minister in connection with the impending hungarian quota referendum, directly initiating the exclusion of hungary from the european union. in rejecting these false and hostile attacks of muslim and european prejudice and bias against each other, i respectfully ask parliament and personally vice-president federica mogherini to defend the unjustly accused prime minister viktor orbán and hungary, which as a member of the union is committed to its national sovereignty.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. here, other speakers were also unsure about what social dumping actually means. and frankly, for me on the left, the essence of social dumping is how employers can drag down and down and down the wages of their workers, period. we've dealt with that concept. but i ask you with all due respect, would you agree to a border? namely the european minimum wage, which is probably very serious... (the president cut the speaker off)
my fellow citizens! the report attempts to answer important questions. although it starts from the definition of social dumping, it cannot give an exact answer or formula to this question, nor to the other questions. i think it is particularly wrong to include the concept of the posting directive, i.e. the posting of legally employed workers and its rules. it thus seeks to convert a legal and competitive provision into something that is illegal. we must take decisive action against this! the preconception is also flawed, because it assumes that there is only one element of competition, namely wage costs. if that were the case, all businesses would be looking for labour in the third world and not in the european union, where there is still a need for a continuous and balanced catch-up between member states, and not for such sensational reports to be made in the european parliament.
i'm sorry, but i'm not sure i can do this. president juncker spoke very strongly about security. the people's party welcomes the appointment of an independent commissioner for internal security. it is time for parliament to follow suit. on behalf of the people's party group, i propose that parliament establish an independent committee on internal security. the complex issues of internal security, terrorism, appear in this parliament in only one dimension, the human rights context. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i speak as a hungarian european politician on the issue of the immigration crisis. our position is clear and humane. we should not bring the trouble to europe, but help those in trouble on the ground. and for them, to get home as soon as possible. illegal immigration has to stop. europe's external borders must be protected. definitely, the way hungary does. we don't think it's fair to distribute those who are illegally admitted or invited by others according to a mandatory quota. the hungarian people will have the opportunity to express their opinion in the form of a referendum. other countries should not be afraid to ask their citizens about immigration, to get honest answers. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's a two-card draw. madam president, i don't know what this structure was built of, how it didn't fall on us in those moments when, on behalf of the people's party, mr fidesz spoke about human behavior. how can you look mr juncker, who is a member of your own party family, in the eye when in hungary there is a campaign with public money in which, for example, in government publications, mr juncker's photo is mounted on the waiting room of the airport destroyed in the brussels terrorist attack, as if mr juncker and mr schulz were responsible for the fact that there was an explosion there anyway. in hungary, they campaign against the european union, and here you talk about humanitarian behavior.
blue-card answer. – madam president, i did not hear any question.
in writing. you are only as big as you feel is the saying. let's be clear, europe is the world's largest economy and the world's strongest economic and political power. let's act like it. the eu economy is growing faster than the united states this year. in almost all member states, public debt and budget deficits have been brought under control. president juncker has announced the launch of a new investment programme, which is expected to create more than 5 million jobs in europe. europe is strong, and to talk about its decline is political hysteria. true, there are challenges from the russian security threat to the british withdrawal. as the commission has been urging, we need a common eu army. we can't rely on the united states alone for our security. there can be no scenario in which europeans do not feel safe in their own country. we must also embark on a brutal economic development that will enable every european to live well, better than his parents. third, a quick solution to the refugee crisis cannot wait. the eu visa, border guard and common asylum policy are the solution, not individual member state solutions. but let us remember that europe is not small and powerless. europe still accounts for more than a fifth of the world's economic output, despite having only 7% of the world's population. let us act accordingly when we talk about the state of the eu.
in writing. as a left-wing, socialist politician, it is clear to me that the key to solving the problems currently plaguing the union is to return to the fundamental value of integration and of the european left : solidarity. this means concrete, decisive political, institutional and financial steps to make the long-standing project of a 'social europe' a success, as the president of the commission said in his speech calling for the building of the 'social pillar' of the eu. rapid and effective action in this area can also help to regain the trust and support of european citizens. i believe that the most urgent and most promising task for the union today in this endeavour is to ensure that all our fellow europeans in all member states, including those belonging to the most disadvantaged groups in society, are regularly supplied with quality, nutritious food. it is no longer humanly, morally, or politically acceptable that millions of people, including children, go hungry on a daily basis in the richest, most sustainable food-producing continent on earth. i am aware that the european union has all the means at its disposal to put an end to this shameful situation, and i therefore ask the commission to draw up and submit to the member states' leaders, as a matter of urgency, its proposals on the specific legal, institutional, financial and fiscal framework for a common european solution. europe can and must feed all its citizens! (europe can, and must feed all europeans!)
in writing. ‒ the union is switzerland's most important economic partner, given its geographical and cultural proximity, and in particular its political and economic importance. accordingly, the union has established closer relations with switzerland through a number of agreements than with any other country outside the european economic area (eea). switzerland is the union's fourth largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, and the union is switzerland's most important trading partner. following the rejection of switzerland's accession to the eea agreement in 1992 and the mutual recognition of the crucial role of cooperation, a series of bilateral agreements (e.g. the so-called 'bilateral i. package') were concluded. these covered, inter alia, the free movement of persons, land and air transport, agriculture, research and technical barriers to trade and public procurement and entered into force on 1 june 2002. as switzerland has access to and benefits from the internal market and its enlargement, as do the member states of the union, it benefits politically, economically and culturally from a wider internal market in which free movement, including that of hungarian nationals, is a key element and the restriction of which by switzerland is unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation, which is also relevant to brexit, in line with the rapporteur's opinion.
in writing. ‒ given its geographical and cultural proximity, and in particular its political and economic importance, the union of 28 member states is switzerland's most important partner. accordingly, the union has established closer relations with switzerland through a number of agreements than with any other country outside the european economic area (eea). switzerland is the union's fourth largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, and the union is switzerland's most important trading partner. following the rejection of switzerland's accession to the eea agreement in 1992 and the mutual recognition of the crucial role of cooperation, a series of bilateral agreements (e.g. the so-called 'bilateral i. package') were concluded. these covered, inter alia, the free movement of persons, land and air transport, agriculture, research and technical barriers to trade and public procurement and entered into force on 1 june 2002. as switzerland has access to and benefits from the internal market and its enlargement, as do the member states of the union, it benefits politically, economically and culturally from a wider internal market in which free movement, including that of hungarian nationals, is a key element and the restriction of which by switzerland is unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation, which is also relevant to brexit, in line with the rapporteur's opinion.
in writing. ‒ given its geographical and cultural proximity, and in particular its political and economic importance, the union of 28 member states is switzerland's most important partner. accordingly, the union has established closer relations with switzerland through a number of agreements than with any other country outside the european economic area (eea). switzerland is the union's fourth largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, and the union is switzerland's most important trading partner. following the rejection of switzerland's accession to the eea agreement in 1992 and the mutual recognition of the crucial role of cooperation, a series of bilateral agreements (e.g. the so-called 'bilateral i. package') were concluded. these covered, inter alia, the free movement of persons, land and air transport, agriculture, research and technical barriers to trade and public procurement and entered into force on 1 june 2002. as switzerland has access to and benefits from the internal market and its enlargement, as do the member states of the union, it benefits politically, economically and culturally from a wider internal market in which free movement, including that of hungarian nationals, is a key element and the restriction of which by switzerland is unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation, which is also relevant to brexit, in line with the rapporteur's opinion.
in writing. ‒ given its geographical and cultural proximity, and in particular its political and economic importance, the union of 28 member states is switzerland's most important partner. accordingly, the union has established closer relations with switzerland through a number of agreements than with any other country outside the european economic area (eea). switzerland is the union's fourth largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, and the union is switzerland's most important trading partner. following the rejection of switzerland's accession to the eea agreement in 1992 and the mutual recognition of the crucial role of cooperation, a series of bilateral agreements (e.g. the so-called 'bilateral i. package') were concluded. these covered, inter alia, the free movement of persons, land and air transport, agriculture, research and technical barriers to trade and public procurement and entered into force on 1 june 2002. as switzerland has access to and benefits from the internal market and its enlargement, as do the member states of the union, it benefits politically, economically and culturally from a wider internal market in which free movement, including that of hungarian nationals, is a key element and the restriction of which by switzerland is unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation, which is also relevant to brexit, in line with the rapporteur's opinion.
in writing. ‒ given its geographical and cultural proximity, and in particular its political and economic importance, the union of 28 member states is switzerland's most important partner. accordingly, the union has established closer relations with switzerland through a number of agreements than with any other country outside the european economic area (eea). switzerland is the union's fourth largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, and the union is switzerland's most important trading partner. following the rejection of switzerland's accession to the eea agreement in 1992 and the mutual recognition of the crucial role of cooperation, a series of bilateral agreements (e.g. the so-called 'bilateral i. package') were concluded. these covered, inter alia, the free movement of persons, land and air transport, agriculture, research and technical barriers to trade and public procurement and entered into force on 1 june 2002. as switzerland has access to and benefits from the internal market and its enlargement, as do the member states of the union, it benefits politically, economically and culturally from a wider internal market in which free movement, including that of hungarian nationals, is a key element and the restriction of which by switzerland is unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation, which is also relevant to brexit, in line with the rapporteur's opinion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the free movement of persons was signed in 2000 by switzerland and the then 15 eu member states. since the enlargement of the union on 1 may 2004 does not automatically extend to the new member states, the agreement has been amended by a protocol and extended to the 10 new member states. in accordance with the accession of bulgaria and romania to the union on 1 january 2007, the agreement was amended again with the entry into force of protocol ii in 2009. protocol iii was established with the accession of croatia to the union in 2013. however, this was initially blocked by switzerland following the referendum against mass immigration on 9 february 2014, to which the union responded. on 4 march 2016, switzerland and the union finally signed protocol iii extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. the council adopted a draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol, subject to the agreement of the european parliament. in its report, the committee on employment and social affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the signing of protocol 3 to the agreement on the free movement of persons, supplementing the agreement concluded in 2000 on the basis of the second bilateral convention between the eu and its member states and the swiss confederation. i took into account the fact that the content and scope of most of the numerous agreements in existence between the two parties are automatically adapted to the enlargement of the eu, whereas the agreement on the free movement of persons and employment is not, and therefore a new additional protocol is needed following the accession of croatia. switzerland is now practically part of the single internal market and the eu, croatia and switzerland have an important interest in its continued smooth functioning, including in the movement and employment of their citizens. in this respect, the seven-year transitional period laid down in the draft, in order to ensure gradualness, is in line with previous similar provisions. however, as regards the developments to be expected in the near future, as a member of the relevant ep delegation, i must keep in mind that the unfortunate outcome of the 2014 swiss anti-immigration referendum is contrary to the agreement with the eu and that, in the absence of an agreement that provides a mutually appropriate legal solution, the entire legal basis of our system of relations with switzerland may be lost.
in writing. ‒ given its geographical and cultural proximity, and in particular its political and economic importance, the union of 28 member states is switzerland's most important partner. accordingly, the union has established closer relations with switzerland through a number of agreements than with any other country outside the european economic area (eea). i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and employment is tasked in accordance with the treaty and with due regard for the competences of the eu institutions and bodies to ensure continuous coordination between the council, the commission and the social partners. at european level, it provides an opportunity for the social partners to contribute to the implementation of the union's strategy for growth and jobs through their social dialogue. to this end, the summit draws on the work of the council, the commission and the social partners and on the negotiations between them in the various conciliation fora on economic, social and employment issues. following the institutional change brought about by the treaty of lisbon to establish the presidency of the european council, the 2003 decision establishing the tripartite social summit for growth and employment should be reviewed. in order to maintain the logic of the treaty and the institutional background of the trilateral social summit for growth and employment, the roles and responsibilities conferred on the rotating presidency of the council by the 2003 council decision should be transferred to the newly established presidency of the european council. i supported the proposal because it represents a reform of the eu's platform for social dialogue, in a form adapted to the lisbon treaty. the forum can provide an opportunity for peripheral countries to finally act against the pay gap between the centre and the periphery and other forms of employment colonization.
in writing. ‒ in exercising its right to assent under the special legislative procedure, the european parliament adopted a position on the draft council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec. the change concerned mainly technical and procedural issues. the basis for this is the tripartite social summit on growth and employment, established by council decision 2003/174/ec of 6 march 2003, which formalized the practice of informal high-level meetings organised since 1997 under the european employment strategy and then the lisbon strategy. in 2003, the commission presented a proposal for a decision to institutionalize the practice of high-level consultations between the eu institutions and the social partners in the eu. however, following the institutional change brought about by the treaty of lisbon to establish the presidency of the european council, the 2003 decision establishing the tripartite social summit for growth and employment had to be reviewed. (the legal basis for the adoption of the council decision was provided for in article 352 tfeu.)
in writing. ‒ in exercising its right to assent under the special legislative procedure, the european parliament adopted a position on the draft council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec. the change concerned mainly technical and procedural issues. the basis for this is the tripartite social summit on growth and employment, established by council decision 2003/174/ec of 6 march 2003, which formalized the practice of informal high-level meetings organised since 1997 under the european employment strategy and then the lisbon strategy. in 2003, the commission presented a proposal for a decision to institutionalize the practice of high-level consultations between the eu institutions and the social partners in the eu. however, following the institutional change brought about by the treaty of lisbon to establish the presidency of the european council, the 2003 decision establishing the tripartite social summit for growth and employment had to be reviewed. (the legal basis for the adoption of the council decision was provided for in article 352 tfeu. ) i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in exercising its right to assent under the special legislative procedure, the european parliament adopted a position on the draft council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec. the change concerned mainly technical and procedural issues. the basis for this is the tripartite social summit on growth and employment, established by council decision 2003/174/ec of 6 march 2003, which formalized the practice of informal high-level meetings organised since 1997 under the european employment strategy and then the lisbon strategy. in 2003, the commission presented a proposal for a decision to institutionalize the practice of high-level consultations between the eu institutions and the social partners in the eu. however, following the institutional change brought about by the treaty of lisbon to establish the presidency of the european council, the 2003 decision establishing the tripartite social summit for growth and employment had to be reviewed. (the legal basis for the adoption of the council decision was provided for in article 352 tfeu.)
in writing. ‒ in exercising its right to assent under the special legislative procedure, the european parliament adopted a position on the draft council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec. the change concerned mainly technical and procedural issues. the basis for this is the tripartite social summit on growth and employment, established by council decision 2003/174/ec of 6 march 2003, which formalized the practice of informal high-level meetings organised since 1997 under the european employment strategy and then the lisbon strategy. in 2003, the commission presented a proposal for a decision to institutionalize the practice of high-level consultations between the eu institutions and the social partners in the eu. however, following the institutional change brought about by the treaty of lisbon to establish the presidency of the european council, the 2003 decision establishing the tripartite social summit for growth and employment had to be reviewed. (the legal basis for the adoption of the council decision was provided for in article 352 tfeu.)
in writing. ‒ in exercising its right to assent under the special legislative procedure, the european parliament adopted a position on the draft council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec. the change concerned mainly technical and procedural issues. the basis for this is the tripartite social summit on growth and employment, established by council decision 2003/174/ec of 6 march 2003, which formalized the practice of informal high-level meetings organised since 1997 under the european employment strategy and then the lisbon strategy. in 2003, the commission presented a proposal for a decision to institutionalize the practice of high-level consultations between the eu institutions and the social partners in the eu. however, following the institutional change brought about by the treaty of lisbon to establish the presidency of the european council, the 2003 decision establishing the tripartite social summit for growth and employment had to be reviewed. (the legal basis for the adoption of the council decision was provided for in article 352 tfeu.)
in writing. the wage gap between the periphery and the centre and the colonial aspirations of the latter have been a problem that i have been constantly raising for a long time. the proposal is acceptable because it provides at least a negotiating platform in the form adapted to the lisbon treaty. however, it should be noted that, although the summit system has been in place since 2003, it has not yet produced tangible results for workers, especially those in low-paid jobs in peripheral countries. the policy framework should be fully reviewed, replacing the lisbon strategy with the europe 2020 strategy, and how the trilateral social summit for growth and employment can contribute to the overall governance of the strategy.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit on growth and employment was established by council decision 2003/174/ec of 6 march 2003. on a proposal from the commission, the council adopted a draft decision repealing that decision and introducing new rules for the trilateral social summit on growth and employment. the council must obtain parliament's consent before adopting the draft. in its report, the committee on employment and social affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the draft council decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit on growth and employment was established by council decision 2003/174/ec of 6 march 2003. the aim is to institutionalise the practice of high-level consultations between the eu institutions and the social partners in the eu. the summit was largely focused on promoting the exchange of views at the highest level between the commission, the eu presidency and the eu social partners on the employment and social aspects of the lisbon strategy (up to 2010 and beyond) and the europe 2020 strategy. the treaty of lisbon has introduced significant institutional changes and a review of this decision is therefore warranted. the review has been ongoing since 2013, in this case in the form of an approval given by the european parliament to the european council. the changes will make the summit more efficient and will now also allow the chair of the employment and social affairs committee to participate as a permanent guest. this is how we strengthen representative democracy, which is why i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and employment was established by council decision 2003/174/ec of 6 march 2003, which formalized the practice of informal high-level meetings organised since 1997 under the european employment strategy and then the lisbon strategy. i supported the current proposal.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the review of directive 2006/87/ec is to harmonise technical standards for inland waterway transport, taking into account the specifications of the european committee for the standardisation of inland waterways (cesni). cesni was established to promote the harmonisation of standards for the european inland waterway sector. in this light, inland navigation would be characterised by an appropriate level of safety and efficiency, taking into account scientific and technical developments in the sector. the move would therefore provide a higher degree of legal certainty and allow for timely adaptations to technical progress, and would contribute to the maintenance of high safety standards throughout the union without hampering innovation and safety. taking into account the importance of the safety and efficiency of inland navigation and the need for professional and technical development as essential elements of competitiveness and modern inland navigation, i agree with the revision efforts and therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i support the report with my vote.
in writing. the purpose of the review of directive 2006/87/ec is to harmonise technical standards for inland waterway transport, taking into account the specifications of the european committee for the elaboration of standards for inland waterway transport (cesni). cesni was established to promote the harmonisation of standards for the european inland waterway sector. in this light, inland navigation would be characterised by an appropriate level of safety and efficiency, taking into account scientific and technical developments in the sector. the move would therefore provide a higher degree of legal certainty and allow for timely adaptations to technical progress, and would contribute to the maintenance of high safety standards across the union without hampering innovation and safety. taking into account the importance of the safety and efficiency of inland navigation and the need for professional and technical development as essential elements of competitiveness and modern inland navigation, i agree with the revision efforts and therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i support the report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the review of directive 2006/87/ec is to harmonise technical standards for inland waterway transport, taking into account the specifications of the european committee for the standardisation of inland waterways (cesni). cesni was established to promote the harmonisation of standards for the european inland waterway sector. in this light, inland navigation would be characterised by an appropriate level of safety and efficiency, taking into account scientific and technical developments in the sector. the move would therefore provide a higher degree of legal certainty and allow for timely adaptations to technical progress, and would contribute to the maintenance of high safety standards across the union without hampering innovation and safety. taking into account the importance of the safety and efficiency of inland navigation and the need for professional and technical development as essential elements of competitiveness and modern inland navigation, i agree with the revision efforts and therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i support the report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the review of directive 2006/87/ec is to harmonise technical standards for inland waterway transport, taking into account the specifications of the european committee for the standardisation of inland waterways (cesni). cesni was established to promote the harmonisation of standards for the european inland waterway sector. in this light, inland navigation would be characterised by an appropriate level of safety and efficiency, taking into account scientific and technical developments in the sector. the move would therefore provide a higher degree of legal certainty and allow for timely adaptations to technical progress, and would contribute to the maintenance of high safety standards across the union without hampering innovation and safety. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i support the report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague, mr belet, on the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. the council position amends directive 2009/100/ec and repeals directive 2006/87/ec. the parliament and the council agreed on the overall objective of the directive, which would be to create a harmonised and coherent framework with the aim of guaranteeing the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels. both institutions supported the rationalisation of the use of resources to develop technical standards and adapt them to scientific and technical progress. during the negotiations at first reading, parliament's priorities included the uniform application of technical requirements and the ensuring of a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the review of directive 2006/87/ec is to harmonise technical standards for inland waterway transport, taking into account the specifications of the european committee for the standardisation of inland waterways (cesni). cesni was established to promote the harmonisation of standards for the european inland waterway sector. in this light, inland navigation would be characterised by an appropriate level of safety and efficiency, taking into account scientific and technical developments in the sector. the move would therefore provide a higher degree of legal certainty and allow for timely adaptations to technical progress, and would contribute to the maintenance of high safety standards across the union without hampering innovation and safety. taking into account the importance of the safety and efficiency of inland navigation and the need for professional and technical development as essential elements of competitiveness and modern inland navigation, i agree with the revision efforts and therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i support the report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council the adoption of a directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, amending directive 2009/100/ec and repealing directive 2006/87/ec. parliament adopted its position on the proposal at first reading. the parliament and the council agreed on the overall objective of the directive, but disagreed on the adaptation of the annexes to technical standards. the negotiating team of parliament and the council reached an agreement on the matter on 17 march 2016. the council adopted its position at first reading in accordance with that agreement. the committee on transport and tourism recommends that parliament should agree to this position and give the draft directive legal force. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i see the uniform application of technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union as a good example of closer integration. that is why i voted in favour of this recommendation at second reading. the european parliament supported the recommendation at first reading, with the aim of ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation and the provision that the directive would be reviewed every three years. the agreement between the ep and the council clarifies legal clarity (e.g. by setting clear geographical boundaries), reduces administrative burdens and ensures the european parliament's institutional prerogatives, in particular in updating technical standards. i believe that these uniform requirements will make a significant contribution to efficient, dynamic and safe inland waterway transport and will facilitate the application of new and innovative technologies.
in writing. ‒ on its first reading, parliament supported the uniform application of technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union, with a view to ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. it also welcomed the rapid adaptation of standards to scientific and technical progress. parliament also requested a periodic review of the directive every three years to assess cooperation with the relevant international organisations. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ economic partnership agreements (epas) are the system of trade and development agreements between african, caribbean and pacific states and the eu. its purpose is to support regional and global integration and trade among acp countries. gmp is another important step towards deepening regional integration, provided that the effectiveness of control is adequate and the necessary follow-up measures are in place. in addition, it is essential to involve civil society as a partner in economic processes, which can be facilitated by the appropriate allocation of available resources. monitoring of the contribution to sustainable fair trade will be particularly important in the context of gmp. in this context, i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the countries associated with the economic partnership agreement of the southern african development community, of the other part (sadc gpm countries).
in writing. ‒ economic partnership agreements (epas) are the framework for trade and development agreements between african, caribbean and pacific states and the eu. its purpose is to promote regional and global integration and trade among acp countries. gmp is another important step towards deepening regional integration, provided that the effectiveness of control is adequate and the necessary follow-up measures are in place. in addition, it is essential to involve civil society as a partner in economic processes, which can be facilitated by the appropriate allocation of available resources. monitoring of the contribution to sustainable fair trade will be particularly important in the context of gmp. in this context, i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the countries associated with the economic partnership agreement of the southern african development community, of the other part (sadc gpm countries).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision on the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement between the union and the southern african development community (sadc). the agreement is centred on the southern african customs union (sacu), the oldest such cooperation system in the world. the economic partnership agreement (epa) is intended to promote trade and development among sadc member states, as the union has allowed sadc-epa countries to be exempted from existing export duties and to levy new export taxes in exceptional circumstances, in the event of specific revenue needs, to promote young industries or for environmental protection purposes. this economic partnership agreement has the potential to bring about fundamental positive changes and contribute to sustainable economic development and to trade and integration within the deepened region. however, sadc states should pursue trade and development friendly domestic policies and pursue structural reforms, and the union should provide support for capacity building and trade.
in writing. ‒ economic partnership agreements (epas) are the framework for trade and development agreements between african, caribbean and pacific states and the eu. they are designed to support the acp countries' regional and global trade integration. gmp is another important step towards deepening regional integration, provided that the effectiveness of control is adequate and the necessary follow-up measures are in place. in addition, it is essential to involve civil society as a partner in economic processes, which can be facilitated by the appropriate allocation of available resources. monitoring of the contribution to sustainable fair trade will be particularly important in the context of gmp. in this context, i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the countries associated with the economic partnership agreement of the southern african development community, of the other part (sadc gpm countries).
in writing. the need for changes in trade between the eu and third countries, and the unacceptable pursuit of access to developing countries' markets at all costs. the policy has been primarily to serve the interests of multinational corporations, whose power continues to grow as markets expand. the ever-widening market brings uncertainty to economies, worsening the situation of those who live off work and wages. the report cannot be supported because trade agreements would be needed whose cornerstone is to increase the population holding capacity of the area. this is a transfer of technological knowledge rather than a mutual opening of markets, which can actually help developing countries catch up.
in writing. ‒ seven of the 15 members of the southern african development community (sadc) - angola, botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and south africa - have started negotiations with the union for an economic partnership agreement (epa). this is the sadc-gpm group. at the end of 2007, botswana, lesotho, swaziland, mozambique and namibia concluded interim interregional gpms with the union. the provisional gpm also contains a clause allowing angola and/or south africa to join quickly if they so wish. the agreement was signed by botswana, lesotho, swaziland and mozambique in june 2009. although namibia had initialled the agreement more than nine years earlier, it ultimately decided not to sign it. both parties decided to continue negotiations on a comprehensive regional gpm covering services, investment and trade-related rules. the union concluded negotiations with six members of the sadc gpm (botswana, lesotho, namibia, mozambique, south africa and swaziland) on 15 july 2014. angola did not ultimately initial the agreement, but may join in the future due to its special accession clause. the council adopted a draft decision this year on the conclusion of the initial economic partnership agreement, but this will require parliament's consent. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of the eu-south africa development community (sadc) partnership agreement because it could be detrimental to the most vulnerable african economic operators in its current form. the draft draft, while supported at government level by all the negotiating parties, is a full-fledged free trade agreement in its practical effect, and poses a real risk of market disadvantages for local small and medium-sized enterprises, handicraftsmen and others, who are still weak due to the eu's economic overweight. i also think that the eusadc agreement should be treated with caution because it would be the first of a series of similar partnership agreements with countries in the poorest regions of the world, for which an unbalanced regulation could create an unfavourable precedent.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou partnership agreement, when it was established in 2000, called for fundamental changes to the long-standing non-reciprocal trade preferences that have defined economic and political relations between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states and the european union for almost 40 years. i voted in favour of the motion that is now on the agenda.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the review of directive 2006/87/ec is to harmonise technical standards for inland waterway transport, taking into account the specifications of the european committee for the standardisation of inland waterways (cesni). cesni was established to promote the harmonisation of standards for the european inland waterway sector. in this light, inland navigation would be characterised by an appropriate level of safety and efficiency, taking into account scientific and technical developments in the sector. the move would therefore provide a higher degree of legal certainty and allow for timely adaptations to technical progress, and would contribute to the maintenance of high safety standards across the union without hampering innovation and safety. taking into account the importance of the safety and efficiency of inland navigation and the need for professional and technical development as essential elements of competitiveness and modern inland navigation, i agree with the revision efforts and therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i support the report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that this proposal for a council directive will allow for a wider application of workers' rights and that such international labour standards will encourage member states that have not yet ratified them to do so. the fisheries industry has experienced significant growth, but this growth has not been accompanied by improvements in working conditions and safety. workers in the fishing industry often face harsh or difficult working conditions, spending long periods at sea and often being exposed to unpredictable and dangerous conditions. this agreement guarantees fishermen working under the jurisdiction or flag of a member state of the union adequate living conditions, the right to return home, regular health checks and social protection. i am convinced that agreements to protect workers are an important tool in the fight against exploitation (for example, forced labour, child labour) and therefore i consider it essential to establish a minimum and a maximum age. i believe that the adoption of international labour standards, the involvement of civil partners (e.g. cogeca, etf, europêche, ilo) together ensure the protection of workers and decent working conditions.
in writing. ‒ workers in the fishing sector require special protection, taking into account, among other things, the specific characteristics of work on fishing vessels, the high risk of fatal and non-fatal accidents and the risk of occupational diseases compared to other sectors. i was in favour of the document under consideration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution condemning poland because it touches on issues of subsidiarity, can be interpreted as a political attack, is counterproductive and damages the credibility of the polish people and the european institutions. the resolution of the internal political dispute surrounding the polish constitutional court is not a competence of the union, and the rule of law mechanism is not provided for in the eu treaties, so that the procedure or the penalty to be imposed on poland at the end of it is legally inapplicable. the existing eu treaties do not empower the commission to initiate such a measure, and there is therefore a risk that the mechanism based on the invoicing of undefined concepts serves purely political purposes and not the interests of eu citizens. i do not consider it fortunate that in the current climate of growing anti-eu sentiment, parliament and the commission should be meddling in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state instead of seeking rational solutions to the challenges that threaten the very existence of europe, and that is why i voted against the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i voted against the resolution condemning poland because it touches on issues of subsidiarity, can be interpreted as a political attack, and is therefore counterproductive and damaging to the polish people and the credibility of the european institutions. the resolution of the internal political dispute surrounding the polish constitutional court is not a competence of the union, and the rule of law mechanism is not provided for in the eu treaties, so that the procedure or the penalty to be imposed on poland at the end of it is legally inapplicable. the existing eu treaties do not empower the commission to initiate such a measure, and there is therefore a risk that a mechanism based on the invoicing of undefined concepts serves purely political purposes and not the interests of eu citizens. i do not consider it fortunate that in the current climate of growing anti-eu sentiment, parliament and the commission should be intervening in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state instead of seeking rational solutions to the challenges that threaten the very existence of europe as a whole. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. i voted against the resolution condemning poland because it touches on issues of subsidiarity, can be interpreted as a political attack, and is therefore counterproductive and damaging to the polish people and the credibility of the european institutions. the resolution of the internal political dispute surrounding the polish constitutional court is not a competence of the union, and the rule of law mechanism is not provided for in the eu treaties, so that the procedure or the penalty to be imposed on poland at the end of it is legally inapplicable. the existing eu treaties do not empower the commission to initiate such a measure, and there is therefore a risk that the mechanism based on the invoicing of undefined concepts serves purely political purposes and not the interests of eu citizens. i do not consider it fortunate that in the current climate of growing anti-eu sentiment, parliament and the commission should intervene in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state instead of seeking rational solutions to the challenges that threaten the existence of europe as a whole, and that is why i voted against the resolution as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution condemning poland because it touches on issues of subsidiarity, can be interpreted as a political attack, and is therefore counterproductive and damaging to the polish people and the credibility of the european institutions. the resolution of the internal political dispute surrounding the polish constitutional court is not a competence of the union, and the rule of law mechanism is not provided for in the eu treaties, so that the procedure or the penalty to be imposed on poland at the end of it is legally inapplicable. the existing eu treaties do not empower the commission to initiate such a measure, and there is therefore a risk that the mechanism based on the invoicing of undefined concepts serves purely political purposes and not the interests of eu citizens. i do not consider it fortunate that in the current climate of growing anti-eu sentiment, parliament and the commission should intervene in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state instead of seeking rational solutions to the challenges that threaten the existence of europe as a whole, and that is why i voted against the resolution as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution condemning poland because it touches on issues of subsidiarity, can be interpreted as a political attack, and is therefore counterproductive and damaging to the polish people and the credibility of the european institutions. the resolution of the internal political dispute surrounding the polish constitutional court is not a competence of the union, and the rule of law mechanism is not included in the eu treaties, so that the procedure or the penalty imposed on poland at the end of it is legally inapplicable. the existing eu treaties do not empower the commission to initiate such a measure, and there is therefore a risk that the mechanism based on the invoicing of undefined concepts serves purely political purposes and not the interests of eu citizens. i do not consider it fortunate that in the current climate of growing anti-eu sentiment, parliament and the commission should intervene in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state instead of seeking sensible solutions to the challenges that threaten the existence of europe as a whole, and that is why i voted against the resolution as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution condemning poland because it touches on issues of subsidiarity, can be interpreted as a political attack, and is therefore counterproductive and damaging to the polish people and the credibility of the european institutions. the resolution of the internal political dispute surrounding the polish constitutional court is not a competence of the union, and the rule of law mechanism is not provided for in the eu treaties, so that the procedure or the penalty to be imposed on poland at the end of it is legally inapplicable. the existing eu treaties do not empower the commission to initiate such a measure, and there is therefore a risk that the mechanism based on the invoicing of undefined concepts serves purely political purposes and not the interests of eu citizens. i do not consider it fortunate that in the current climate of growing anti-eu sentiment, parliament and the commission should intervene in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state instead of seeking rational solutions to the challenges that threaten the existence of europe as a whole, and that is why i voted against the resolution as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution condemning poland because it touches on issues of subsidiarity, can be interpreted as a political attack, and is therefore counterproductive and damaging to the polish people and the credibility of the european institutions. the resolution of the internal political dispute surrounding the polish constitutional court is not a competence of the union, and the rule of law mechanism is not provided for in the eu treaties, so that the procedure or the penalty to be imposed on poland at the end of it is legally inapplicable. the existing eu treaties do not empower the commission to initiate such a measure, and there is therefore a risk that the mechanism based on the invoicing of undefined concepts serves purely political purposes and not the interests of eu citizens. i do not consider it fortunate that in the current climate of growing anti-eu sentiment, parliament and the commission should intervene in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state instead of seeking rational solutions to the challenges that threaten the existence of europe as a whole, and that is why i voted against the resolution as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ the enf and ecr groups tabled a motion for a joint resolution on this subject, the ppe, s&d, alde, gue/ngl and verts/ale groups tabled a motion for a joint resolution. i voted for the five-party motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because i consider it to be a major breakthrough in relations between the european union and its member states, in terms of the functioning of the democratic rule of law, the european democratic principles and the rule of law, and the monitoring and possible sanctioning of breaches of the law. i consider it fully justified and founded on eu law that the commission should examine the steps taken by the new polish government to dismantle or restrict democratic institutions, in particular the reduction of the constitutional tribunal's powers, discuss them with the polish government and, if necessary, propose sanctions. i am convinced that with today's decision the ep can also contribute to solving the polish constitutional crisis. in considering my vote, as a hungarian opposition member, i could not ignore the important lesson that if the commission and the european parliament had acted with similar consistency in the past against a hungarian government that has long been violating european democratic norms in similar or even more serious ways, the state of democracy in my country might not have worsened to the current situation.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values are common to the member states, in a society of pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. i voted in favour of the group's position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in agreement with the rapporteur on the report on relations with tunisia. tunisia should be included among the countries with high priority in the european neighbourhood policy. the process of peaceful democratic transition is a successful example in the arab world, and the eu's engagement with tunisia is of great importance for the security of the region as a whole and for the security of europe. deep cooperation is needed, particularly in the fight against terrorism, as tunisia has been hit by numerous terrorist attacks in the past year and the islamic state is recruiting a large number of young people in the country.
in writing. the report rightly points out that the instability in libya and its ripple effects are a serious threat to the stability of tunisia and the region as a whole, as tunisia is currently hosting one million displaced libyans. but the material also ignores the fact that the situation in libya is the result of some eu member states attacking libya without un authorization, in violation of international law. and a lot of that goes back to the incitement of terrorism. the report is seriously flawed and cannot be supported in its entirety, only in its details, because it is justified in some of its elements, such as the fight against human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ tunisia, which has been a successful example for the arab world in its peaceful democratic transition, is in a difficult socioeconomic situation and faces security challenges. the committee on foreign affairs' motion for a resolution looks at how the eu can support tunisia's democratic transition, which is facing serious difficulties in the areas of political reforms and institutions, economic and social development, security and defence, and mobility, research, education and culture. i voted in favour of the adoption of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, fully agreeing with the positive assessment and support it reflects for the building of democracy in tunisia, and the stabilising role the country plays in the region. i consider it important that the further development of the political and economic relations with the european union and its member states continue to provide tunisia with a significant contribution to combating the effects of terrorism, economic difficulties and unemployment, in particular by developing its judicial and security institutions. i am convinced that a resolution of this clear support from the european parliament can contribute to the completion of these positive processes in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently in a difficult socio-economic situation and is facing security challenges due to the libyan situation. the tunisian economy is heavily dependent on foreign investment, tourism and exports of products to the eu. an economy can only flourish if democracy can flourish. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with social dumping within the european union and essentially says that undeclared employment and disguised self-employment can lead to distortions of competition, which can result in long-term damage to social security systems, an increase in precarious jobs and a deterioration in the protection of workers and the quality of employment in general. the increasing trend towards outsourcing and subcontracting may provide opportunities for the abuse or circumvention of existing labour and social legislation. therefore, addressing those abuses is essential for maintaining freedom of movement in the internal market and solidarity within the union. on the basis of the above, the report is to be supported, but i think that some comments are appropriate in the interests of clarity. the free movement of goods, services and capital between countries where the average wage differential between the individual countries is ten times (denmark-bulgaria) or even four times (germany-hungary) leads to social dumping in the first place and no such regulation helps, at best, to moderate the extreme cases. the report stresses the need for upward social convergence, while the opposite is happening in the union, with a declining middle class, precisely because of the huge wage gaps, exacerbated by the pressure of immigration and cheap (chinese) imports, which also push wages downwards.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz-kdnp delegation to the european parliament voted unanimously and decisively against the ep report on social dumping. the document identifies a threat to the free movement of services in eu citizens legally employed in another member state, particularly workers from central and eastern europe. instead of defining the concept of 'social dumping', the report sought to define the posting of legally employed workers to another eu member state as social dumping. the report attempts to conflate the status of workers legally posted to another member state under existing eu legislation, and of carriers providing cross-border services, with the situation of, inter alia, undeclared workers and those working in the domestic and care sector (especially home care), which is unacceptable. as is well known, the proportion of posted workers within the union is less than 1% of the union labour market. the question arises as to why the european commission has forced the start of the revision of the legislation on posted workers when the deadline for its transposition has not yet expired. it is also a well-known fact that western european companies are much more capital-intensive, whereas in central and eastern europe, one of the main elements of competitiveness is lower labour costs. the difference between the two could be resolved, albeit in a limited way, by legislation on posted workers, the review of which would be reasonable and proportionate only if adequate experience were available.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz-kdnp delegation to the european parliament voted unanimously and decisively against the ep report on social dumping. the document identifies a threat to the free movement of services in eu citizens legally employed in another member state, particularly workers from central and eastern europe. instead of defining the concept of 'social dumping', the report sought to define the posting of legally employed workers to another eu member state as social dumping. the report attempts to combine the status of workers legally posted to another member state under existing eu legislation with that of carriers providing cross-border services, with the unacceptable situation of, inter alia, undeclared workers and those working in the domestic and care sector (especially home care). as is well known, the proportion of posted workers within the union is less than 1% of the union labour market. the question arises as to why the european commission has forced the start of the revision of the legislation on posted workers when the deadline for its transposition has not yet expired. it is also a well-known fact that western european companies are much more capital-intensive, whereas in central and eastern europe, one of the main elements of competitiveness is lower labour costs. the difference between the two could be resolved, albeit in a limited way, by legislation on posted workers, the review of which would be reasonable and proportionate only if adequate experience were available.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz-kdnp delegation to the european parliament voted unanimously and decisively against the ep report on social dumping. the document identifies a threat to the free movement of services in eu citizens legally employed in another member state, particularly workers from central and eastern europe. instead of defining the concept of 'social dumping', the report sought to define the posting of legally employed workers to another eu member state as social dumping. the report attempts to combine the status of workers legally posted to another member state under existing eu legislation with that of carriers providing cross-border services, with the unacceptable situation of, inter alia, undeclared workers and those working in the domestic and care sector (especially home care). as is well known, the proportion of posted workers within the union is less than 1% of the union labour market. the question arises as to why the european commission has forced the start of the revision of the legislation on posted workers when the deadline for its transposition has not yet expired. it is also a well-known fact that western european companies are much more capital-intensive, whereas in central and eastern europe, one of the main elements of competitiveness is lower labour costs. the difference between the two could be resolved, albeit in a limited way, by legislation on posted workers, the review of which would be reasonable and proportionate only if adequate experience were available.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz-kdnp delegation to the european parliament voted unanimously and decisively against the ep report on social dumping. the document identifies a threat to the free movement of services in eu citizens legally employed in another member state, particularly workers from central and eastern europe. instead of defining the concept of 'social dumping', the report sought to define the posting of legally employed workers to another eu member state as social dumping. the report attempts to combine the status of workers legally posted to another member state under existing eu legislation with that of carriers providing cross-border services, with the unacceptable situation of, inter alia, undeclared workers and those working in the domestic and care sector (especially home care). as is well known, the proportion of posted workers within the union is less than 1% of the union labour market. the question arises as to why the european commission has forced the start of the revision of the legislation on posted workers when the deadline for its transposition has not yet expired. it is also a well-known fact that western european companies are much more capital-intensive, whereas in central and eastern europe, one of the main elements of competitiveness is lower labour costs. the difference between the two could be resolved, albeit in a limited way, by legislation on posted workers, the review of which would be reasonable and proportionate only if adequate experience were available.
in writing. ‒ the european union is building on the single and common internal market, while the competence in the social area remains with the member states. the report by the committee on employment and social affairs deals with the asymmetry between the completion of the internal market and highly heterogeneous social rights. as the intense competition between economic operators encourages companies to reduce labour costs, this asymmetry creates undesirable competition between companies. this is contrary to the principle of fair competition between firms, the proliferation of abusive practices and the use of unfair social competition undermines the principle of the internal market and undermines confidence in european integration, and encourages protectionism and unilateral social decisions by member states. the report calls for measures to address the legislative and regulatory gaps that are conducive to the emergence of unfair competition in the internal market. these include strengthening the controls and inspections resulting from the application of the legislation in force, modernising the register of work performed and a single digital document ensuring portability of social rights for all european workers. it proposes the establishment of a european list of companies responsible for serious infringements such as undeclared work and the establishment of minimum wages, which in certain sectors could be extended to the community level. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ in order to avoid contradiction with my duties as vice-president of the people's party, in cases where the faction votes differently from the hungarian representatives in the roll-call voting, i will not participate in the vote directly. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on. i did the same thing in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it makes the right statements in an area that is important to me personally. the rapporteur notes that, in addition to the aspirations for peace and prosperity after the second world war, the founders of 'europe' defined it as a democratic area where, in addition to a prosperous economy, a high level of social protection is ensured. in reality, however, while great progress has been made in the economic sphere, the member states have retained their competence in the social sphere, apart from certain principles laid down in the treaty and in certain directives. i agree with the observation that there is an asymmetry in practice between the internal market in the making and the highly heterogeneous social rights. i believe that there is an inverse principle between the development of the social system and economic development, which is often misunderstood: member states are economically successful when they maintain a quality social system (and not the other way around). i agree that in an asymmetric system competition between companies is created, which also hinders the maintenance of a high level of social protection within europe (i.e. intense competition between economic operators encourages companies to reduce expenditure). unfortunately, the gender pay gap is further burdened by social dumping. i believe that the european minimum wage, which the party of european socialists dreamed of for a decade, would have a positive impact on social rights!
in writing. ‒ one of the main principles of eu policies is social cohesion, which means the continuous and permanent approximation of the wages and social security protection of all workers, whether local or travelling. the main reason for workers leaving their home countries is the wage gap. i also supported the group's position in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ on 30 june 2016, the commission adopted delegated regulation (eu) no c(2016) 03999 on the same subject. the report of the economic and monetary committee expresses a number of concerns regarding this delegated regulation. according to the report, these risk that the rules laid down in the delegated regulation are contrary to the spirit and purpose of the legislation, which states that clear, comparable, understandable and non-misleading information should be provided to retail investors in relation to retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the report therefore recommends that parliament raise an objection to the delegated regulation, thereby preventing its entry into force, and ask the commission to submit a new delegated act which takes account of these concerns. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution objecting to commission delegated regulation (eu) no c3996 of 16 december 2016 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities (oj c 180, 1.7.2016, p. 1). regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 26 november 2014 required the development of a draft regulatory technical standard to establish a standardised key information document to provide retail investors with greater transparency regarding retail and insurance-based investment products. the aim was to provide retail investors with information on these products in an easily readable and understandable and comparable form. however, the commission regulation, which is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the esas, did not fully meet expectations. i therefore agree with the motion calling on the commission to submit a new delegated act which takes account of the concerns expressed therein.
in writing. ‒ in order to promote a level playing field in the market, it is essential that consumer information on investment products is comparable, regardless of the type of financial intermediary that produces or markets those products. i supported him with my vote.
madam president, the single market can only function correctly if businesses have the possibility to compete on equal terms. however, unfortunately, practice shows that there are always companies operating within the eu that will try to circumvent the rules to gain questionable advantages. the current case of apple demonstrates this quite well. here, i have to congratulate the commission – and especially you, commissioner vestager – for taking a firm stance on this matter. companies like apple and those who provide selective terms to them must know that this behaviour is not tolerated within the eu anymore, and that they will eventually have to pay a price. it should also be highlighted that the european union is not leading any kind of witch hunt against american corporations. they create many jobs in europe and make important investments: that is true. however, all companies – no matter whether european or foreign – must understand that using unfair advantages that go against eu law can lead to serious consequences. i am delighted to see the deep determination of the commission to create a system of fair taxation and greater transparency. at the same time, i call on the member states to tackle the loopholes in their national laws that allow tax avoidance to take place and refrain from any harmful tax practices. again, let us be honest, it takes two to tango. today’s message goes not only to apple and similar, but their proxies around the member states’ governments, as in hungary as well.
it's a two-card draw. madam deputy, i really want to ask you a sincere question as a hungarian politician. you and other italian and greek colleagues here in the debate seem to be rightly complaining about the inaction of europe, but how is this in practice? that you get a signal from a particular refugee that he's going to move on, and then you try to look for him, and there's no reception capacity, or how does that work in practice, so why is this number so low, the number of resettled so far?
in writing. improving the rate of return of persons not eligible for international protection is vital to maintaining the integrity of the eu asylum system. the initiative to provide a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals to the eu is welcomed. europe and refugees have a common interest in allowing refugees to return to their home countries once the root causes have been addressed. it's not about bringing them in and distributing them, it's about getting the help there. the ep report, rather than merely putting the eu-turkey agreement into a technical form, seeks to extend and accelerate the scope of this failed mechanism, making it even more difficult for this already dysfunctional system to function. we believe that in the hope of redistribution, human traffickers must send more and more vulnerable migrants to europe, risking their lives. on the other hand, experience has shown that migrants from poorer, less well-off eu countries head to germany or sweden within days. the commission considers that the conditions for the granting of residence permits are met. solidarity cannot be limited to the allocation of migrants by quota, but also includes efforts to protect europe's external borders and humanitarian aid to improve living conditions in camps close to the refugees' homes. the lack of clarity on the issue of migration also leads to a disruption in the application of the schengen system, which threatens european integration and the internal market as a whole.
my fellow citizens! the draft report contains a number of forward-looking recommendations. these include strengthening the commitment to public investment and pursuing balanced employment policies towards member states. goals are important, too. in particular in areas where hungary has made significant progress in recent times. for example, the increase in the activity rate, which has already tripled since 2010, has increased much more, much faster than in italy, for example. or the issue of youth unemployment, where there are huge differences between member states. personally, i believe in making a living. that is why i think it is premature to introduce a universal minimum income. other instruments are needed to combat poverty, such as reducing recessions or providing employment benefits linked to various tax incentives.
madam president, please. first of all, i would like to commend mr ferber for the work he has put into the preparation of this report and for his receptiveness to my amendments. i should also like to say, in addition to the subject, that e-services and e-commerce are becoming more and more common, but without the traditional postal services, these services cannot function either. online shopping doesn't work without it. this requires in particular the provision of postal services in more remote, remote and less densely populated regions. but we also need to maintain flexibility, and i am pleased that the document under discussion takes account of local specificities and the scope for long-term sustainability of the service, which is of great importance for the member states. it is very important to provide cross-border postal services in addition to domestic services, at transparent and affordable prices, using the current developments, such as cross-border 'track and trace' systems, which are still quite expensive in today's conditions. finally, it is important to consider the opportunities offered by new technologies. such possibilities include delivery by drone, which, if properly regulated, can be an effective alternative to conventional delivery, especially in sparsely populated and remote regions.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point (b) of article 2 (2) of the protocol on financial and technical cooperation between the european union and the swiss confederation on the financial contribution from the european union to the european atomic energy community for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015:
i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following agenda item is the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading (com (2015) 0583 - c8-0375/2015 - 2015/0268 (cod)) (a8-0238/2016)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2016.
mr president the minimum income raises new issues, particularly in the areas of competitiveness, employee motivation and sustainable budgeting. can there be a uniform, pre-established minimum income in all member states, which does not create internal migration pressures? how can the principle of free movement within the european union be ensured, where this possibility exists? has the commission examined cases where the introduction of a minimum income has reduced the incentive effect of competitiveness and performance? my last question is, according to research done in the united states, the introduction of a basic income in the united states alone would simply consume a large part of the federal budget. in the meantime, we'll be calling for more tax hikes. have the consequences been considered at eu level?
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. we agree on two things, but i have a question: firstly, as you said, we are indeed facing a good report, and secondly, the member states, the governments of the member states, have a lot more to do, especially some of them, which have been so lagging behind in this whole process. i would like to ask you, however, whether you feel that the current measures, whether at national level or at eu level, are sufficient to enable children with disabilities to prepare for a difficult future together with their parents, even as they are growing up.
in writing. the report on the application of directive 2000/78/ec on a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation contains a number of forward-looking provisions. this report is based on the experience of the last 15 years. the fact that religion has been given priority in this area is an important step forward, but i believe that restrictions on the wearing of religious symbols should remain a matter for national jurisdiction. progress has also been made in the area of disability, with emphasis on the importance of taking into account, for example, tax incentives or the work of the committee responsible for monitoring public procurement and the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. in this context, it is important to strengthen the legal protection of persons with disabilities and to take concrete steps to do so. in line with the development of robotics and artificial intelligence, further progress is expected in the area of age discrimination, in particular through improving the digital skills of workers and the development of intelligent services. however, the report's provisions on sexual orientation contain elements that challenge national competences and traditions and are not to be supported. in addition, i am concerned about the collection of data on racial and ethnic origin, as well as the harmonisation of parental leave, especially given that hungary spends significantly more on family benefits and subsidies than the eu average.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regional development committee. - mr president! as the person responsible for the opinion of the committee on regional development, i would first like to draw attention to the fact that exploiting the synergies between the european globalisation adjustment fund and the european structural and investment funds is essential for quick, lasting and effective results. cohesion policy has made a significant contribution to mitigating the negative economic and social effects of the crisis and globalisation and has promoted sustainable employment and growth. to find lasting solutions to unemployment, to exploit synergies, to pool resources, is necessary. i would also like to point out that the average approval period for applications from the european globalisation adjustment fund during the period covered by this report was 10 months, which is unacceptable. any measures that shorten the time taken to deal with these requests are important and have been encouraged.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. i agree more or less with what you have said, but i would like to ask your opinion on one aspect: namely, whether in the current ttip negotiations, which are in tatters, you see the convention itself as providing adequate protection of social rights, whereas if not, the same basis will have to be put into effect.
in writing. ‒ the return of persons not entitled to international protection (refugees, economic migrants) should be a priority objective for the european union. improving the rate of return of irregular migrants is vital for the integrity of the eu asylum system, for cooperation between eu member states and third countries and for maintaining the trust of eu citizens. a long-term solution must be provided to stabilise the current migration crisis, to relieve pressure on member states and eu agencies and to increase capacity and resources within the eu. the current rate of return of rejected asylum seekers is extremely poor. the current standard eu travel document needs to be significantly improved in terms of its format and application in order to be better recognised and effective in third countries. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, discrepancies, costs and waiting periods and hopefully increase the acceptance of the document in third countries. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the situation of third-country nationals who are in need of international protection. in this regard, they should ensure a higher level of technical and security standards for return documents, in particular with regard to protection against forgery and falsification. on the basis of the foregoing, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i consider the adoption of this report to be very important. improving the rate of return of irregular migrants is vital for the integrity of the eu asylum system, for cooperation between eu member states and third countries and for maintaining the trust of eu citizens. a long-term solution must be provided to stabilise the current migration crisis, to relieve pressure on member states and eu agencies and to increase capacity and resources within the eu. the current standard eu travel document needs to be significantly improved in terms of its format and application in order to be better recognised and effective in third countries. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, discrepancies, costs and waiting periods and hopefully increase the acceptance of the document in third countries. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ improving the rate of return of persons not eligible for international protection is vital to maintaining the integrity of the eu asylum system. the initiative to provide a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals to the eu is welcomed. europe and refugees have a common interest in allowing refugees to return to their home countries once the root causes have been addressed. it's not about bringing them in and distributing them, it's about getting the help there.
in writing. ‒ i consider the adoption of the report to be very important and i myself voted in favour of it. improving the rate of return of irregular migrants is vital for the integrity of the eu asylum system, for cooperation between eu member states and third countries and for maintaining the trust of eu citizens. a long-term solution must be provided to stabilise the current migration crisis, to relieve pressure on member states and eu agencies and to increase capacity and resources within the eu. the current standard eu travel document needs to be significantly improved in terms of its format and application in order to be better recognised and effective in third countries. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, discrepancies, costs and waiting periods and hopefully increase the acceptance of the document in third countries.
in writing. the commission's report is generally a good one, but the libe amendments are much more precise. obviously, we need to find a way to produce modern documents, to find rules for uniformity. it would have been much more effective and cheaper if governments had not sought to destabilise regions outside the eu and to lure economic refugees to europe. but that's another story, with no one in charge yet.
in writing. ‒ many third countries refuse to accept return documents issued by eu member states to rejected asylum seekers because they are of poor quality. the commission has therefore proposed to the parliament and the council that a regulation on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals be adopted. in its report, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended that parliament adopt the commission proposal at first reading with 32 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion, aware that harmonising the form and content of eu documents allowing the return , where appropriate, the expulsion of third-country nationals who are illegally present or have entered the eu is an urgent precondition for a more effective and humane common asylum policy. member states that refuse to accept migrants and refugees for political reasons or xenophobia, or destination states that are obliged to accept, have been able to invoke the deficiencies of such travel documents too easily and too often. we cannot completely eliminate this administrative-political tactic in the future, but with the new, standardised and modernised documents, non-cooperative governments - both inside and outside the eu - will have one less excuse to reject and inhumanely treat migrants. i am confident that this decision, together with the introduction of more modern instruments, will lead the eu to step up its efforts to conclude new reception and relocation agreements with countries that have so far avoided this.
in writing. ‒ a long-term solution must be provided to stabilise the current migration crisis, relieve pressure on member states and eu agencies and increase capacity and resources within the eu. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or marketed. a fundamental step towards the realisation of a capital markets union, which aims to help businesses access more diversified funding channels across the european union, encourage markets to operate more efficiently and offer investors and savers additional ways to use their money to boost growth and job creation. disclosure of information in the event of a public issue or admission to trading of securities is essential for the protection of investors. harmonisation of that publication allows for the establishment of a cross-border authorisation mechanism that could contribute to the effective functioning of the internal market for a wide range of securities. furthermore, it is necessary that the publication rules applicable when it is introduced take the form of a regulation in order to ensure that the provisions imposing direct obligations on persons involved in the issue of securities to the public and the admission of securities to trading on a regulated market are applied in a uniform manner throughout the union. there should be no obstacles to cross-border securities issuance, multiple listing on regulated markets and union consumer protection rules.
in writing. the commission proposal is intended to make it easier and cheaper for businesses, especially smes, to raise capital, and to provide clear information to potential investors, including retail investors. it is unlikely that the resumption of capital market-based financing will be a solution for companies that need more capital to continue and expand their activities, since economic difficulties are essentially the result of austerity, neoliberal policies that restrict demand for sme activities and products. the main and real objective of the cmu is to revive the activity of the financial markets. this will lead to speculation rather than economic recovery and is likely to destabilise the economy, therefore the report cannot be supported.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council that a regulation be adopted on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered for issue to the public or are marketed. in its report, the committee recommends that parliament adopt the commission proposal at first reading with a consolidated text with a number of substantive amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading. the main objective of the cmu is to facilitate the raising of capital on capital markets, and a harmonised eu prospectus plays a major role in this. the revision of the whistleblower directive is important for greater efficiency and is also essential for the establishment of the capital markets union. i agree with the report, which adopted the commission's position, in particular with regard to the opening of the market for non-equity securities to retail investors and to the possibility for the investor to read the summary in one of the official languages of his member state. i welcome the amendments to facilitate access to capital markets for smes.
in writing. ‒ the directive 2003/71/ec on prospectuses, currently in force, harmonises the rules on the publication of prospectuses by companies raising capital by the issue of shares for listing on a stock exchange or by the public offer of investment options. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ subject: ep opinion on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing, in the framework of the consultation procedure, transitional measures in the interest of italy and greece in the area of international protection. the proposal is essentially to create a legal framework for a mandatory relocation scheme, ostensibly to help greece and italy, but in reality to implement the great immigration plan to divide europe. it would oblige member states to facilitate the entry of millions of people who are clearly not refugees in the sense of international law but economic immigrants, alien to european culture, on the basis of the admission quotas foreseen for member states. the proposal goes further than the council's proposal and is based on the principle of full, unconditional liberal acceptance and firmly rejects the principle of protecting the identity of the member states. the proposal states that resettlement should not be at the expense of relocation, both of which are important tools of solidarity. relocation is a form of internal solidarity between member states, while resettlement and humanitarian or other forms of reception are external solidarity with third countries hosting the majority of refugees. it's all a play on words, but the essence is the same: the great project of the dismantling of the nation-states, the abandonment of the identity and culture of europe. on the basis of all these considerations, i have, of course, refused to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ i would like to point out that this way of distributing asylum seekers is still not considered a suitable way to resolve the situation, since each state has the sovereign right to decide who it will accept on its territory. furthermore, forced relocation increases the traction effect and is not responsive to the management of secondary migration movements. the eu has also provided support to the government of the drc in the form of grants, loans and other financial assistance to the drc. in my view, europe and refugees have a common interest in allowing refugees to return to their home countries once the causes of their flight have been mitigated or eliminated. and that doesn't mean bringing in migrants and distributing them, it means getting aid there. in addition to turkey, other states hosting large refugee camps also need to be helped. the european parliament's report instead of merely putting the eu-turkey agreement into a technical form seeks to extend and accelerate the scope of this failed mechanism, which will only make it even more difficult for this already dysfunctional system to function. in view of all this, i voted against the report.
in writing. hungary has opposed forced relocation on a principle basis since the beginning of the migration crisis. the hungarian government has also challenged in the court of justice of the european union a decision to take in migrants by force, which ignores the european council's resolution on voluntary relocation. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing, and that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing. furthermore, forced relocation increases the traction effect and does not respond to the treatment of secondary migration movements. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states, including on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states. in my view, europe and refugees have a common interest in allowing refugees to return to their home countries once the causes of their flight have been mitigated or eliminated. and that doesn't mean bringing in migrants and distributing them, it means getting aid there. in addition to turkey, other states hosting large refugee camps also need to be helped. the european parliament's report instead of limiting itself to the technical form of the eu-turkey agreement seeks to extend and accelerate the scope of this failed mechanism, which will only make it even more impossible for this already dysfunctional system to function, and therefore i am voting against it as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation.
in writing. hungary has opposed forced relocation on a principle basis since the beginning of the migration crisis. the hungarian government has also challenged in the court of justice of the european union a decision to take in migrants by force, which ignores the european council's resolution on voluntary relocation. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing, and that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing. furthermore, forced relocation increases the traction effect and is not responsive to the management of secondary migration movements. the eu has also provided support to the government of the drc in the form of grants, loans and other financial assistance to the drc. in my view, europe and refugees have a common interest in allowing refugees to return to their home countries once the causes of their flight have been mitigated or eliminated. and that doesn't mean bringing in migrants and distributing them, it means getting aid there. in addition to turkey, other states hosting large refugee camps also need to be helped. the european parliament's report instead of limiting itself to the technical form of the eu-turkey agreement seeks to extend and accelerate the scope of this failed mechanism, which will only make it even more impossible for this already dysfunctional system to function, and therefore i am voting against it as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ hungary has opposed forced relocation on a principle basis since the beginning of the migration crisis. the hungarian government has also challenged in the court of justice of the european union a decision to take in migrants by force, which ignores the european council's resolution on voluntary relocation. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing, and that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing. furthermore, forced relocation increases the traction effect and is not responsive to the management of secondary migration movements. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states, including on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states. in my view, europe and refugees have a common interest in allowing refugees to return to their home countries once the causes of their flight have been mitigated or eliminated. and that doesn't mean bringing in migrants and distributing them, it means getting aid there. in addition to turkey, other states hosting large refugee camps also need to be helped. the european parliament's report instead of limiting itself to the technical form of the eu-turkey agreement seeks to extend and accelerate the scope of this failed mechanism, which will only make it even more impossible for this already dysfunctional system to function, and therefore i am voting against it as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ hungary has opposed forced relocation on a principle basis since the beginning of the migration crisis. the hungarian government has also challenged in the court of justice of the european union a decision to take in migrants by force, which ignores the european council's resolution on voluntary relocation. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing, and that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing. furthermore, forced relocation increases the traction effect and is not responsive to the management of secondary migration movements. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states, including on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states. in my view, europe and refugees have a common interest in allowing refugees to return to their home countries once the causes of their flight have been mitigated or eliminated. and that doesn't mean bringing in migrants and distributing them, it means getting aid there. besides turkey, other states that host large refugee camps also need help. the european parliament's report instead of limiting itself to the technical form of the eu-turkey agreement seeks to extend and accelerate the scope of this failed mechanism, which only makes it even more impossible for this already dysfunctional system to function, and therefore i am voting against it as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ hungary has opposed forced relocation on a principle basis since the beginning of the migration crisis. the hungarian government has also challenged in the court of justice of the european union a decision to take in migrants by force, which ignores the european council's resolution on voluntary relocation. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing, and that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing. furthermore, forced relocation increases the traction effect and is not responsive to the management of secondary migration movements. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states, including on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states. in my view, europe and refugees have a common interest in allowing refugees to return to their home countries once the causes of their flight have been mitigated or eliminated. and that doesn't mean bringing in migrants and distributing them, it means getting aid there. in addition to turkey, other states hosting large refugee camps also need to be helped. the european parliament's report instead of limiting itself to the technical formulation of the eu-turkey agreement seeks to extend and accelerate the scope of this failed mechanism, which will only make it even more impossible for this already dysfunctional system to function, and therefore i am voting against it as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ hungary has opposed forced relocation on a principle basis since the beginning of the migration crisis. the hungarian government has also challenged in the court of justice of the european union a decision to take in migrants by force, which ignores the european council's resolution on voluntary relocation. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing, and that the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing. furthermore, forced relocation increases the traction effect and is not responsive to the management of secondary migration movements. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states, including on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative in the member states. in my view, europe and refugees have a common interest in allowing refugees to return to their home countries once the causes of their flight have been mitigated or eliminated. and that doesn't mean bringing in migrants and distributing them, it means getting aid there. in addition to turkey, other states hosting large refugee camps also need to be helped. the european parliament's report instead of limiting itself to the technical formulation of the eu-turkey agreement seeks to extend and accelerate the scope of this failed mechanism, which will only make it even more impossible for this already dysfunctional system to function, and therefore i am voting against it as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation.
in writing. nono, there have been other cases in history, but they didn't end well either, and they've been looking for the site of the ruins of troy ever since. maybe the greek and italian navies shouldn't be gathering on the shores of africa and transporting economic refugees to europe. the facilitation of the integration of millions of people who are not refugees but economic migrants in the sense of international law and who are alienated from european culture should not be supported on the basis of the reception quotas set for member states. for example, it is not serious to make it mandatory for afghans, who have already crossed half the world before entering the eu, to come from a clearly safe country of origin, but it is also true for almost all other immigrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the resolution, convinced that the experience of european solidarity and eu cooperation on migration so far justifies both exceptional and urgent support for the member states bearing the primary burden of the refugee crisis and, where appropriate, for the italian and greek governments . however, i am aware that this can be seen as symptomatic, that the management of the migration crisis requires more diverse measures and that it presupposes the full unity of the eu. as the hungarian representative on this issue, i can only regret that my country - as a potential beneficiary - is left out of the joint burden, because the eu as a community and as an institution has so far been powerless to deal with the fact that some member states' governments continue to refuse to participate in any eu solidarity on asylum, and even try to undermine it, and the orbán government is at the forefront of this. while i do not deny the importance of the decision just adopted as a positive gesture, and with a view to the future, i must warn you that it will deprive our common solidarity with those who bear the brunt of the burden of much of its strength and effectiveness if the eu continues to prove impotent in the face of such behaviour by some of its own member states.
in writing. ‒ as part of the common asylum policy, the treaty on the functioning of the european union allows the council, on a proposal from the european commission and after consulting the european parliament, to adopt transitional measures for the benefit of the member state or member states concerned, if one or more member states are faced with an emergency situation characterised by a sudden inflow of third-country nationals. i followed the s&d position in the final vote on the report.
in writing. the commission is taking its usual form, trying to find solutions at the level of slogans, strictly on the basis of the repeatedly failed neoliberal economic policy. the proposals of the committee on employment and social affairs are well-intentioned, but they are not very practical, given that average wages within the union vary by a factor of 5 to 10, and the wage differentials in developing countries are a distortion of competition. it should be understood that it is impossible to impose the same economic policy on so many different countries. the committee is much more critical than the original commission document, and its assessment of the situation is much better, so its amendments are supported, as opposed to the original document.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the council the adoption of a decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the council shall consult parliament before adopting the proposal. in its report, the committee on employment and social affairs recommends that parliament adopt the commission proposal as amended, with seven amendments and five new guidelines, and asks the commission to submit its proposal to the council amended accordingly. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, the points of which are being presented for the second time by the european parliament to the commission and the council respectively. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. the treaty on european union clearly states the objective of the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the union. it also provides that the european union shall adopt measures (for example, in the form of guidelines) to coordinate the employment and social policies of the member states. i regret to note that these principles are not being fully respected, and that more and more member states are pursuing a policy of special treatment. in particular, some member states are ignoring the spirit of the treaty (c), which in my view reinforces the phenomenon of the democratic deficit with the eu. i think we should not only talk about job creation, but also about quality jobs. a member state (e.g. hungary) should not be able to include in its employment data the citizens working abroad or slave labourers on a monthly wage of eur 150. in this context, i am pleased that the proposals put a strong social focus on europe 2020 and on the economic and labour policies and challenges of the member states.
in writing. ‒ member states and the union shall seek to develop a coordinated strategy for the achievement of the objectives set out in the treaty on european union in the field of employment, and in particular the development of a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets responsive to economic change. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution details the importance of the european union's accession to the convention as a signatory to the convention in combating illegal trade in wild fauna and flora. the eu is one of the main destinations for trade in these living animals and plants, and the main market for products made from them. the proposal makes recommendations for changes to the decision-making mechanism and the financing and implementation of the convention and aims to increase the number of species listed in the appendix. the amendments will help to detect and tackle corruption and abuse and illegal trade more effectively and encourage more effective information exchange and coordination of controls between member states and across the eu. on the basis of all this, i have accepted the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the main objectives of the cop17 meeting in johannesburg. the eu's accession to cites is an essential step towards achieving the wider objectives of the union's environmental protection policy and ensuring the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, and in promoting the un's sustainable development policies for the period up to 2030. the accession of the european union to cites has made its position more transparent. this is a logical and necessary step to ensure that the european union can fully meet its environmental policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has proposed the adoption of a resolution on the strategic objectives of the union for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg, south africa, from 24 september to 5 october 2016. the draft welcomes the eu's accession to cites and the fact that the eu is now participating as a party to the conference for the first time. the draft specifically addresses the protection of certain endangered animal and plant species, such as the african elephant, the broad-billed rhinoceros, the african lion, the red-cockaded woodpecker, the tiger and the asian big cat, as well as the agar tree and the rose tree, and the adoption of measures to promote their conservation. i voted in favour of the adoption of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is the world's largest convention on the conservation of global wildlife, with 181 member states. wildlife trade is the fourth largest black market (after drugs, people and arms) and this illegal trade is also affecting the eu. the proposal calls for strong action against corruption and organised crime in wildlife trade; calls for more effective measures against illegal online trade; calls for the establishment of an effective sanctions system, and calls for consumer awareness and traceability to be strengthened. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and i trust that hungary will actively participate in the implementation of these commitments. i think that the hungarian political elite, who want to hunt, cannot afford to arbitrarily change the list of protected animals, but rather i suggest that they do everything possible to act together.
in writing. ‒ the question arose earlier as to what the main strategic objectives of the european union will be at the forthcoming conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg, south africa, from 24 september to 5 october 2016. i voted yes to the final vote on the relevant document.
in writing. ‒ despite the increasing use of e-services and online shopping, traditional postal services are still indispensable today. they are particularly needed in remote regions where there is no adequate internet coverage. the third postal directive paved the way for the completion of the internal market for postal services as early as 2008. by 2013, market opening was achieved in all member states. however, significant changes have occurred in the postal services market in the recent period which require a review of the application of the directive. traditional paper-based communications - the delivery of letters, newspapers and magazines - are declining rapidly, while the volume of parcel delivery is increasing thanks to electronic shopping. it is very important to provide cross-border postal services beyond domestic services, at transparent and affordable prices, using the acquis of the present day (e.g. track-and-trace). one of the main priorities is to maintain and promote effective competition in the postal services sector, while taking into account the needs of users. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ despite the increasing use of e-services and online shopping, traditional postal services are still indispensable today. they are particularly needed in remote regions where there is no adequate internet coverage. the third postal directive paved the way for the completion of the internal market for postal services as early as 2008. by 2013, market opening was achieved in all member states. however, significant changes have occurred in the postal services market in the recent period which require a review of the application of the directive. traditional paper-based communications - the delivery of letters, newspapers and magazines - are declining rapidly, while the volume of parcel delivery is increasing thanks to electronic shopping. it is very important to provide cross-border postal services beyond domestic services, at transparent and affordable prices, using the acquis of the present day (e.g. track-and-trace). one of the main priorities is to maintain and promote effective competition in the postal services sector, while taking into account the needs of users. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i identify with these objectives and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. despite the increasing use of e-services and online shopping, traditional postal services are still indispensable today. they are particularly needed in remote regions where there is no adequate internet coverage. the third postal directive paved the way for the completion of the internal market for postal services as early as 2008. by 2013, market opening was achieved in all member states. however, significant changes have occurred in the postal services market in the recent period which require a review of the application of the directive. traditional paper-based communications - the delivery of letters, newspapers and magazines - are declining rapidly, while the volume of parcel delivery is increasing thanks to electronic shopping. it is very important to provide cross-border postal services beyond domestic services, at transparent and affordable prices, using the acquis of the present day (e.g. track-and-trace). one of the main priorities is to maintain and promote effective competition in the postal services sector, while taking into account the needs of users. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i identify with these objectives and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ despite the increasing use of e-services and online shopping, traditional postal services are still indispensable today. they are particularly needed in remote regions where there is no adequate internet coverage. the third postal directive paved the way for the completion of the internal market for postal services as early as 2008. by 2013, market opening was achieved in all member states. however, significant changes have occurred in the postal services market in the recent period which require a review of the application of the directive. traditional paper-based communications - the delivery of letters, newspapers and magazines - are declining rapidly, while the volume of parcel delivery is increasing thanks to electronic shopping. it is very important to provide cross-border postal services beyond domestic services, at transparent and affordable prices, using the acquis of the present day (e.g. track-and-trace). one of the main priorities is to maintain and promote effective competition in the postal services sector, while taking into account the needs of users. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i identify with these objectives and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ despite the increasing use of e-services and online shopping, traditional postal services are still indispensable today. they are particularly needed in remote regions where there is no adequate internet coverage. the third postal directive paved the way for the completion of the internal market for postal services as early as 2008. by 2013, market opening was achieved in all member states. however, significant changes have occurred in the postal services market in the recent period which require a review of the application of the directive. traditional paper-based communications - the delivery of letters, newspapers and magazines - are declining rapidly, while the volume of parcel delivery is increasing thanks to electronic shopping. it is very important to provide cross-border postal services beyond domestic services, at transparent and affordable prices, using the acquis of the present day (e.g. track-and-trace). one of the main priorities is to maintain and promote effective competition in the postal services sector, while taking into account the needs of users. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i identify with these objectives and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ despite the increasing use of e-services and online shopping, traditional postal services are still indispensable today. they are particularly needed in remote regions where there is no adequate internet coverage. the third postal directive paved the way for the completion of the internal market for postal services as early as 2008. by 2013, market opening was achieved in all member states. however, significant changes have occurred in the postal services market in the recent period which require a review of the application of the directive. traditional paper-based communications - the delivery of letters, newspapers and magazines - are declining rapidly, while the volume of parcel delivery is increasing thanks to electronic shopping. it is very important to provide cross-border postal services beyond domestic services, at transparent and affordable prices, using the acquis of the present day (e.g. track-and-trace). one of the main priorities is to maintain and promote effective competition in the postal services sector, while taking into account the needs of users. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i identify with these objectives and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ despite the increasing use of e-services and online shopping, traditional postal services are still indispensable today. they are particularly needed in remote regions where there is no adequate internet coverage. the third postal directive paved the way for the completion of the internal market for postal services as early as 2008. by 2013, market opening was achieved in all member states. however, significant changes have occurred in the postal services market in the recent period which require a review of the application of the directive. traditional paper-based communications - the delivery of letters, newspapers and magazines - are declining rapidly, while the volume of parcel delivery is increasing thanks to electronic shopping. it is very important to provide cross-border postal services beyond domestic services, at transparent and affordable prices, using the acquis of the present day (e.g. track-and-trace). one of the main priorities is to maintain and promote effective competition in the postal services sector, while taking into account the needs of users. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i identify with these objectives and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the committee on transport and tourism's motion for a resolution reviews the state of play of postal services since their liberalisation following the 2008 revision of the postal services directive. notes that the decline in paper-based communication and correspondence has been offset by the increase in parcel traffic as online shopping has become more widespread; the commission has also identified a number of areas where the postal sector is particularly vulnerable to the effects of the digital divide. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the european postal services directive, taking into account the significant changes that have taken place in this area since the adoption of the 2008 eu legislation aimed at liberalising the field. of these, traditional postal services and correspondence are particularly affected by the rapid spread of digitalisation, while the demand for parcel delivery has been completely changed and expanded by the expansion of e-commerce. the amendment of the legislation will help european service providers to compete and adapt better to new conditions, while paying due attention to the job-creation potential of the sector in the european labour market.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 review of postal services has achieved the main objectives of the liberalisation of european postal services. over the last five years, as well as due to the growth of e-commerce, the retail segment of the parcel delivery market has grown rapidly, while competition is slowly emerging in the letter delivery market, despite the full opening of the union market. i supported the current proposal.
in writing. ‒ the report considers it important that smes understand the complexities, benefits and risks of external financing. therefore, increasing the financial literacy of smes is a prerequisite for creating a capital market culture where entrepreneurs are willing to consider using capital market solutions. in my view, initiatives such as the capital markets union will exacerbate the problems faced by european smes in accessing finance. this is because they increase the financialisation of the economy, and thereby reduce macroeconomic stability and growth. improving sme financing would also require tightening the financial sector's grip on power and bringing it under state control by strengthening regulation, and establishing a clear link between lending activity and actual production. the typical role of smes is to meet local needs, to participate actively in the local economy. if an sme wants to enter the international market, it can usually do so only if it has a strong foothold in the domestic market. this includes financial security, which deteriorates as funds move away from the workplace. sme financing can be solved by local banks that lend to small businesses in a targeted way and are aware of their activities and can assess the risk of lending. since the report does not encourage this, i have refused to accept it.
in writing. as an economist and on the basis of my international experience, i must say that the minority opinion which emerged during the committee's discussion of the subject should be considered correct. initiatives such as the capital markets union will exacerbate the access to finance problems of european smes by increasing the financialisation of the economy, thereby reducing macroeconomic stability and growth, and by shifting microeconomic risks from large financial players to smes, which will become dependent on increasingly complex and opaque financial instruments. the general solution is to bring the financial sector under state control by strengthening public banking institutions and regulation and to establish a clear link between lending activity and actual production. the sme segment is a local need, and financing is best done with local banks that lend to small businesses and know their business so they can assess the risk of lending. if an sme wants to enter the international market, it can usually only do so if it has a strong foothold in the domestic market. your financial security deteriorates as funds move away from the workplace.
in writing. ‒ the economic and monetary committee's motion for a resolution reviews the financing possibilities for smes in the context of the capital markets union. it states that bank lending is still the most important source of finance for smes and is likely to remain so. however, this is significantly hampered by the significant strengthening and re-implementation of the prudential and supervisory framework for banks in order to safeguard financial stability as a direct consequence of the financial crisis. in order to mitigate possible negative consequences for smes, the so-called sme multiplier was therefore introduced, i.e. the requirement that the capital requirement for credit risk exposure of smes be multiplied by 0,7619. the draft accords priority to this factor. the draft also addresses non-bank financing of smes, including securitisation, listing on a stock exchange, crowdfunding and peer-to-peer lending. finally, it states that the best way to ensure the development of smes is a simple and fair tax system that ensures a level playing field for all businesses, not only in corporate taxation but also in income taxation. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme finance in the cmu. the report rightly notes that european smes are very diverse, have different business models, face different challenges and therefore have different financing needs. as the report emphasises, the crisis hit the financing of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (msmes) harder than that of large enterprises. this situation still exists today and i therefore support the call for diversified and more public and private funding opportunities for smes not only in the start-up phase but throughout their life cycle. diversification is essential because there is no one-size-fits-all approach to funding, and a wide range of tailor-made programmes, tools and initiatives are needed. furthermore, in line with the report and the action plan on a capital markets union, i also believe that smes need to be better connected to financing opportunities, as there are still many obstacles to smes using market-based and other innovative financing methods. finally, i welcome the part of the report that deals with the distortions caused by the tax system. i agree with the rapporteur that we should have a simple and fair tax system that ensures a level playing field for all businesses.
in writing. ‒ european smes are very diverse, with a large number of micro-enterprises, often operating in traditional sectors, and an increasing number of new start-ups and fast-growing innovative enterprises; as these business models face different problems, their financing needs are also different. i voted in favour of the motion under consideration.
in writing. ‒ with around 99% of european enterprises being smes, their capacity to create jobs has a major impact on the performance of the european economy. since the two biggest challenges we face today are reducing unemployment and stopping migration flows, smes must be at the heart of eu entrepreneurship policy-making and all necessary steps must be taken to strengthen the capacity of this sector to create jobs. this is only possible on the basis of an in-depth mapping of existing links. the sme sector in europe is diverse and fragmented. despite the internal market rules, there are still significant differences in the regulatory framework for smes within the european union, in particular with regard to the stability and security of that framework. it is clear that the largest smes in central and eastern europe are small compared to their western counterparts. while the growth of stable economies is fostered by effective interactions between smes and large enterprises, in many southern and eastern european member states, the difficult economic conditions have left their mark on the proper development of smes. this is why national and european policies need to address skills issues in order to create the necessary environment for business development and to increase the capacity of enterprises to create jobs. the report addresses these issues, and i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the two biggest challenges we face today are reducing unemployment and stopping migration flows. with around 99% of european enterprises being smes, their capacity to create jobs has a major impact on the performance of the european economy. small and medium-sized enterprises must therefore be at the heart of the development of entrepreneurship policy in the eu and all necessary steps must be taken to strengthen the capacity to create jobs in this sector. this is only possible on the basis of an in-depth mapping of existing links. the sme sector in europe is diverse and fragmented. despite the internal market rules, there are still significant differences in the regulatory framework for smes within the european union, in particular with regard to the stability and security of that framework. it is clear that the largest smes in central and eastern europe are small compared to their western counterparts. while the growth of stable economies is fostered by effective interactions between smes and large enterprises, in many southern and eastern european member states, the difficult economic conditions have left their mark on the proper development of smes. to achieve this, national and european policies need to address skills problems (skill shortages, regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens) in order to create the necessary environment for business development and to increase the capacity of enterprises to create jobs. the report addresses these problems, which is why i voted for it.
in writing. since i have been a member of the european parliament, i have seen a lot of reports that highlight the important role that smes play in creating jobs in the eu. the reports underline that smes should therefore be supported in every possible way, both through access to resources and through reducing their administrative burdens. despite years of apparent eu ambition, the situation is not good today, and the report makes it clear that access to finance is still one of the main obstacles to the creation and growth of smes. smes are at a serious competitive disadvantage compared to multinational companies which shift their profits to member states or third countries that are tax havens. the substance is not sufficiently robust in terms of its strengths and lacks concrete solutions, but it should be supported.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on employment and social affairs is based on the importance of creating new jobs. it notes that smes are the source of new jobs and the engine of the european economy: 85% of jobs in europe were created by smes in the last decade and in 2015, small businesses contributed 71% of the growth in employment in non-financial enterprises. the report stresses that in order to create the healthy environment needed for business development and to increase the capacity of enterprises to create jobs, national and european policies need to address skills problems (skill shortages, non-compliance, brain drain), alleviate regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, and tackle undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational companies. stresses furthermore the importance of a stable regulatory environment, regulatory quality and enforcement as the right way to reduce the costs for smes, including labour costs; it is also one of the essential prerequisites for job sustainability and for the ability of smes to create high-quality jobs. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on better exploiting the job creation potential of smes. as smes are the engine of the european economy, it is crucial, as the report stressed, that member states provide better conditions for sme job creation, including by reducing skills shortages, simplifying unnecessary and overly complex regulatory burdens, increasing innovation capacity and improving access to finance and public procurement. i welcome the report's reference to the frequent preferential treatment of multinational companies and its negative impact on smes. in order to ensure a level playing field and to enhance the job creation capacity of smes, profit shifting practices by multinational companies should be tackled. the report also made an important call for support for the creation and development of cooperative enterprises, cooperation with trade unions and educational institutions, and the promotion of entrepreneurship among people from vulnerable groups. financing is also key to the job creation capacity of smes. the report also made valuable findings in this area. however, i note that increasing labour market flexibility often leads to a reduction in the protection of workers.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur believes that europe is currently facing two major challenges: unemployment and migration flows, which will have many implications for the future. the high unemployment rate threatens the demographic outlook, as many young people prefer not to start a family in the absence of a job. the long-term consequences of this situation are the pressure on social security systems and pension systems, which also threatens the future of this generation. i supported the s&d position in the final vote on the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz-kdnp delegation to the european parliament voted unanimously and decisively against the ep report on social dumping. the document identifies a threat to the free movement of services in eu citizens legally employed in another member state, particularly workers from central and eastern europe. instead of defining the concept of 'social dumping', the report sought to define the posting of legally employed workers to another eu member state as social dumping. the report attempts to combine the status of workers legally posted to another member state under existing eu legislation with that of carriers providing cross-border services, with the unacceptable situation of, inter alia, undeclared workers and those working in the domestic and care sector (especially home care). as is well known, the proportion of posted workers within the union is less than 1% of the union labour market. the question arises as to why the european commission has forced the start of the revision of the legislation on posted workers when the deadline for its transposition has not yet expired. it is also a well-known fact that western european companies have much higher capital strengths, whereas in central and eastern europe, one of the main elements of competitiveness is lower labour costs. the difference between the two could be resolved, albeit in a limited way, by legislation on posted workers, the review of which would be reasonable and proportionate only if adequate experience were available.
in writing. ‒ the report of the employment and social affairs committee is on council directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, the ultimate aim of which was to create a level playing field in employment and occupation. the implementation of the directive has brought about a number of results, but serious problems remain. the report states that discrimination affects all areas of people's lives, employment being just one of them. the data on employment equality are otherwise scarce, partly because the employment equality directive does not require member states to collect them. however, the perceptible differences in other areas can be inferred for this area as well. 40% of roma job seekers experience discrimination, 75% of gays do not hold hands with their partner in public, 38% of jewish respondents said they do not wear symbolic jewish clothing in public, and 37% of muslim respondents experienced discrimination and 11% experienced a hate crime. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses the experience of the employment equality directive over 15 years and makes suggestions for further improvements. the rapporteur has produced a balanced material which also includes aspects of discrimination on grounds of gender, race, religion, political convictions, disability, age or sexual orientation. although some member states have already implemented the directive - and therefore workers are better informed - others are still lagging behind. the report mentions among the shortcomings the lack of equality data, awareness, the role of civil and social society and access to justice. i think it's important that the report puts a lot of emphasis on age and disability discrimination, the importance of data collection and lifelong learning and training. i believe that the review of equal opportunities in employment is important and that all forms of discrimination should be avoided, which is why i voted in favour of the report. i am convinced that the hungarian government should also introduce more targeted measures to ensure that the principle of equality is applied in practice.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on european union states that the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. fifteen years have passed since the adoption of the employment equality directive, the ultimate aim of which is to create a level playing field in employment and occupation. i voted in favour of the document under consideration.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to support and show solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns (more than 500 workers per enterprise) and the egf aims to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to promote sustainable employment by preparing and supporting redundant workers for a new job. in contrast to the european social fund, the co-financing rate is much lower (60%) and the average duration of the application process is 41 weeks (2013 data) and the average grant per head is around eur 4500. hungary has not used this possibility so far, as mass layoffs took place almost exclusively before 2010 and the existing procedural rules are still not sufficiently flexible for our country. the fund is also a major instrument for dealing with the consequences of the economic crisis, which is why i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to support and show solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns (more than 500 workers per enterprise) and the egf aims to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to promote sustainable employment by preparing and supporting redundant workers for a new job. in contrast to the european social fund, the co-financing rate is much lower (60%) and the average duration of the application process is 41 weeks (2013 data) and the average grant per head is around eur 4500. hungary has not used this possibility so far, as mass layoffs took place almost exclusively before 2010 and the existing procedural rules are still not sufficiently flexible for our country. the report was prepared by sógor csaba, a hungarian member of parliament from the other side of the border, whose work contributed greatly to making the report even more acceptable to the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, and i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to support and show solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns (more than 500 workers per enterprise) and the egf aims to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to promote sustainable employment by preparing and supporting redundant workers for a new job. in contrast to the european social fund, the co-financing rate is much lower (60%) and the average duration of the application process is 41 weeks (2013 data) and the average grant per head is around eur 4500. hungary has not used this possibility so far, as mass layoffs took place almost exclusively before 2010 and the existing procedural rules are still not sufficiently flexible for our country. the report is acceptable to the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to support and show solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns (more than 500 workers per enterprise) and the egf aims to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to promote sustainable employment by preparing and supporting redundant workers for a new job. in contrast to the european social fund, the co-financing rate is much lower (60%) and the average duration of the application process is 41 weeks (2013 data) and the average grant per head is around eur 4500. hungary has not used this possibility so far, as mass layoffs took place almost exclusively before 2010 and the existing procedural rules are still not sufficiently flexible for our country. the report was prepared by sógor csaba, a hungarian member of parliament from the other side of the border, whose work contributed greatly to making the report even more acceptable to the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, and i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to support and show solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns (more than 500 workers per enterprise) and the egf aims to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to promote sustainable employment by preparing and supporting redundant workers for a new job. in contrast to the european social fund, the co-financing rate is much lower (60%) and the average duration of the application process is 41 weeks (2013 data) and the average grant per head is around eur 4500. hungary has not used this possibility so far, as mass layoffs took place almost exclusively before 2010 and the existing procedural rules are still not sufficiently flexible for our country. the report was prepared by sógor csaba, a hungarian member of parliament from the other side of the border, whose work contributed greatly to making the report even more acceptable to the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, and i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund can be managed with a budget that is embarrassingly low in relation to eu gdp. the very intention to allow solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation in the form of mass redundancies is right. however, experience shows that the fund's resources are actually used to mitigate the damage caused by the profit-making activities of large companies in the central countries, which is highly questionable. in my view, it should be used primarily in the less developed member states, where the impact of globalisation is matched by the negative economic impact of the stronger eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the experience of the european globalisation adjustment fund 2007-14. the fund was set up 10 years ago as an emergency instrument outside the eu's multiannual financial framework, primarily to support european workers and small and medium-sized enterprises who have lost their jobs as a result of the international economic and trade realignment. in my experience, there is still a need for job creation, retraining and business support in this area, but the knowledge of the instrument, the attitude of some member states towards it and the use of the available resources are not yet sufficient. i am confident that the conclusions and corrective proposals contained in the report adopted will contribute to making better use of the potential of this important eu fund in the future, especially in terms of creating new, genuine european jobs.
in writing. ‒ the role of the egf is to enable solidarity to be shown with workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation in the context of mass redundancies, in cases where these redundancies have a significant negative impact on the regional or local economy. i voted for the report in the final vote.
madam president, first of all let me thank my colleague mr neuser for his good work. we have recognised that acp-eu cooperation is a unique achievement. it has intensified the ties between acp and eu countries for the last four decades. i would like to highlight two elements that would improve the situation of the peoples of the partner countries: first, placing the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals at the centre of the new agreements; and, second, placing the human—rights aspect at the centre of european action. migration and displacement will dominate the acp-eu agenda for the future. a new agreement must address this expanding challenge. to increase political oversight, we need a strong parliamentary dimension in the new cooperation agreement. we must guarantee that european development partnerships are concluded only with regimes respecting human dignity. where governments cannot be our partners, we must bring on board local communities that are ready to cooperate with us. faith-based communities and their organisations represent the real local power in very many places. they often manage development programmes that are already functioning well. their efficiency on the ground is remarkable. my strongest message today is that we must engage better with local communities and faith-based organisations in coordinated – and i underline again coordinated – dialogue. let me draw attention to the importance of local small and medium-sized enterprises: they are key to the improvement of communities and the extension of social cohesion. lastly, the situation is quite clear: let us have cooperation with local powers and international actors to address the humanitarian situation which can no longer be overlooked in many acp countries.
mr. president, i have to ask you... it is in the interest of europe and of refugees that refugees are able to return to their home countries as soon as the causes of their situation have been mitigated or eliminated. so we need to eliminate the triggers and help where the problem is, not bring it here. to this end, it is vital that people who are forced to flee can live in suitable living conditions in camps close to their home countries. and one of the most important elements of that is education. providing education is essential not only for the healthy development of the child but also for the future of their own community. you can't just drop an entire generation out of education, just to avoid radicalization. that's why it's very important for syrian children to be able to get an education in lebanon. and i'm glad that hungary is also directly supporting the provision of education in the refugee camps in lebanon, jordan, iraq, with concrete offers, or the construction of hospitals.
mr president, as several members have said, including most recently mr de castro, we need a global food policy. and if we interpret the globe, the whole earth, as including europe, then i must say that there is plenty to do here at home, on the european continent. the reason for the various stumbling blocks that many have mentioned is probably that we have little experience at home, in the european union, where there are very serious problems. mr president, i would like to say that in the eastern half of europe - including my own country, hungary - 2% of the population is effectively malnourished and hungry. the vast majority of these are children, to top it all off. if we could also deal with feeding these animals, we might be able to make a much easier case for ourselves on the international stage. but not only that, but until there is a uniform tax policy on food in the european union, the vat on food will be 27% in hungary and zero elsewhere.
mr. president, it's been 60 years since the hungarian people rose in unprecedented unity in october 1956 against the communist dictatorship and the soviet bolshevik rule that invaded their country. the hungarian revolution of 1956 and the war of independence continued with the prague spring in 1968, and then the polish solidarity freedom movement in the 1980s. in the pivotal year of 1989, the common struggle of our peoples in central and eastern europe led to the fall of soviet communism and the change of regime led to the reunification of a divided europe. freedom is one of the european community's most fundamental values. it is worth remembering the hungarian 1956 and those who sacrificed their lives for freedom as one of the most outstanding events in our common history. we must follow their example and continue our fight against all oppressive powers and totalitarian regimes.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we hungarians always decide on the most important issues affecting our future by referendum, and so it was yesterday. clearly, the hungarians have decided who they want to live with and who they don't want to live with. this referendum clarified the hungarian position. the mandatory resettlement quota package carries significant economic, cultural and security risks, and we cannot afford to take it on. thank you to everyone who voted. those who stayed home left the decision to others. i think this decision is about our future, it's about our children. i respectfully ask the democratic european union, as it did with brexit, to respect the decision of the hungarian citizens in this regard. three million three hundred thousand people have decided to say no to this mandatory quota system. nine out of 10 people decided to say no. many people would like to see these 3 million, 300 thousand people downplayed, but this is much more than those who voted yes to join the eu. in fact, it's a lot more than the votes we got in 2014 when we were confirmed in government - exactly 1 million more. 10% more, higher turnout than the eu vote. thank you, mr. president. please respect our decision.
mr. president, in yesterday's hungarian referendum, only 40% of the electorate participated and voted validly. the rest, nearly 5 million citizens, boycotted this shameful spectacle, or a smaller number voted to invalidate it. this means that the referendum forced by orbán was invalid and without result. the referendum showed that orbán's far-right hate politics has no majority in hungary today. orbán has been defeated, democratic hungary has won, and no amount of lying government propaganda can change that fact. the majority of hungarians have chosen the spirit and values of the european union. the hungarian democrats deserve the support of the european union, because this referendum was about europe, about common european values, about the future of europe. this result should give the european union the courage to stand up to blackmail and, consequently, to take a much bolder stand against far-right populism.
mr president hungarian prime minister viktor orbán's fake anti-european referendum was annulled yesterday. the prime minister's policy has failed, and orbán has suffered a huge defeat. this is good news for europe and a great victory for hungary and the hungarian people. on the one hand, this is good news for europe, because after this the hungarian prime minister cannot be pleased with the position that he represents the opinion of the european minority against the political elite in brussels, since he has apparently already become a minority in his own country, in his own homeland. on the other hand, it is a huge victory for the hungarian people, because hatred has been defeated, the campaign of hatred has been defeated, on which the hungarian government has spent more of the money of the hungarian taxpayers than it was spent in the referendum in britain before the british exit. anywhere in europe, the consequence would be the resignation of the prime minister. orbán will not resign, of course, because his vanity, lust for power and business interests won't allow it. but one thing is certain. his downfall is near! we are one step closer to putting viktor orbán where he and other extremist adventurers like him belong: in the dustbin of history.
mr president, mr secretary general, i have to ask you to please leave. we have a formal meeting scheduled, but we're also going to make an important content decision. with our vote, the european union will ratify the paris agreement on climate change. although several countries have already done so, including hungary, this will be a decisive step in terms of entry into force. the european union's member states have been at the forefront of the fight against climate change. they set ambitious goals and achieved them. but when even more ambitious goals are set, i would like to make two comments. perhaps it is not a waste of time, because we have many responsibilities for the people of europe and for the european economy. so for more radical than radical measures, we have to take into account that europe is only responsible for 10% of emissions, and globally, there is no reduction, just a shift. these aspects must therefore be taken into account in order to ensure the competitiveness of the european economy. the other thing to note is that the most important thing about the paris climate agreement is that it is legally binding. but the european union must also be a force for good in all of this, and it is not possible for the united states as one of the biggest emitters to make its position and then its achievement dependent on who comes to power in the presidential election. enforcement means that each party fulfils what it has agreed to.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the paris agreement marks a turning point towards a comprehensive and joint action at global level. its implementation will accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy. the paris agreement set the goal of keeping temperature rise below 2°c, set limits on greenhouse gas emissions and set as a priority the assistance to countries that are more vulnerable to climate change. the goal of the agreement is to leave a more sustainable, equitable, and healthy planet for future generations. the approval of the european parliament, which fulfilled the conditions for the entry into force of the agreement, was key to its implementation. hungary was the first member state of the european union to complete the internal ratification procedure of the paris agreement. in this light and in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of ratification.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the paris agreement marks a turning point towards a comprehensive and joint action at global level. its implementation will accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy. the paris agreement set the goal of keeping temperature rise below 2°c, set limits on greenhouse gas emissions and set as a priority the assistance to countries that are more vulnerable to climate change. the goal of the agreement is to leave a more sustainable, equitable, and healthy planet for future generations. the approval of the european parliament, which fulfilled the conditions for the entry into force of the agreement, was key to its implementation. hungary was the first member state of the european union to complete the internal ratification procedure of the paris agreement. in this light and in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of ratification.
in writing. ‒ ratify the paris agreement, which was agreed under the un framework convention on climate change. the adoption of the paris agreement marks a turning point towards a comprehensive and joint action at global level. its implementation will accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy. the paris agreement set the goal of keeping temperature rise below 2°c, set limits on greenhouse gas emissions and set as a priority the assistance to countries that are more vulnerable to climate change. the goal of the agreement is to leave a more sustainable, equitable, and healthy planet for future generations. the approval of the european parliament, which fulfilled the conditions for the entry into force of the agreement, was key to its implementation. hungary was the first member state of the european union to complete the internal ratification procedure of the paris agreement. in this light and in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of ratification.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the paris agreement marks a turning point towards a comprehensive and joint action at global level. its implementation will accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy. the paris agreement set the goal of keeping temperature rise below 2°c, set limits on greenhouse gas emissions and set as a priority the assistance to countries that are more vulnerable to climate change. the goal of the agreement is to leave a more sustainable, equitable, and healthy planet for future generations. the approval of the european parliament, which fulfilled the conditions for the entry into force of the agreement, was key to its implementation. hungary was the first member state of the european union to complete the internal ratification procedure of the paris agreement. in this light and in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of ratification.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the paris agreement marks a turning point towards a comprehensive and joint action at global level. its implementation will accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy. the paris agreement set the goal of keeping temperature rise below 2°c, set limits on greenhouse gas emissions and set as a priority the assistance to countries that are more vulnerable to climate change. the goal of the agreement is to leave a more sustainable, equitable, and healthy planet for future generations. the approval of the european parliament, which fulfilled the conditions for the entry into force of the agreement, was key to its implementation. hungary was the first member state of the european union to complete the internal ratification procedure of the paris agreement. in this light and in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of ratification.
in writing. ‒ the 21st conference of the parties to the unfccc, held in paris from 30 november to 12 december 2015, adopted the text of an agreement to strengthen global responses to the challenge of climate change. the commission has called for the paris agreement to be signed and ratified as soon as possible, and the european council, in its decision of 18 march 2016, underlined the importance of the convention being adopted by the eu and its member states as soon as possible. the agreement was initialled by the commission and the council, and by all 28 member states, at a high-level signing ceremony in new york on 22 april 2016. the ratification of the agreement requires a council decision with the consent of parliament. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has proposed in its report that parliament give its consent to ratification of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report approving the proposal for a council decision. i agree that the paris agreement is historic in terms of the fight against climate change and the number of countries that have signed it. it is important to note that by the end of cop 21, a total of 187 parties had notified their intended national contributions to the agreement. the convention represents a turning point towards comprehensive and joint action at the global level and towards a transition to a climate-neutral global economy. the paris agreement shall enter into force 30 days after at least 55 parties responsible for at least 55% of their greenhouse gas emissions have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with the united nations. it is important to note that, as a first step, the commission and the council signed the agreement on behalf of the european union and all 28 member states at a solemn high-level signing ceremony in new york on 22 april 2016. meps consider it unthinkable that the paris agreement will enter into force without the eu's signature, given the eu's leading role in the fight against climate change. it therefore urges the council and each member state to take the necessary steps to complete the eu and national validation process by the end of 2016 at the latest.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement is a historic milestone in the fight against climate change. we heard the position of un secretary-general ban ki-moon at the parliament's sitting today. taking collective action to protect the environment is our first priority and the eu institutions have a key role to play in this. i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance following the disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquake affecting the ionian islands in particular lefkada and the northern parts of ithaca and kefalonia ). the quakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the greek authorities initially estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 66 073 345. as the above amount represents 2,1% of the gdp of the nuts 2 region of the ionian islands concerned (based on eurostat 2014 data) and exceeds the regional gdp threshold of 1,5%, the disaster is a regional disaster within the meaning of article 2 (3) of the eusfa regulation. in accordance with article 4a (2) of the eafrd regulation, at the request of greece, the commission paid an advance of eur 164 798, representing 10% of the contribution from the fund. the amount to be paid after deduction of the 10% advance already paid shall be eur 1 487 036. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance following the disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquake affecting the ionian islands in particular lefkada and the northern parts of ithaca and kefalonia ). the quakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the greek authorities initially estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 66 073 345. as the above amount represents 2,1% of the gdp of the nuts 2 region of the ionian islands concerned (based on eurostat 2014 data) and exceeds the regional gdp threshold of 1,5%, the disaster is a regional disaster within the meaning of article 2 (3) of the eusfa regulation. in accordance with article 4a (2) of the eafrd regulation, at the request of greece, the commission paid an advance of eur 164 798, representing 10% of the contribution from the fund. the amount to be paid after deduction of the 10% advance already paid shall be eur 1 487 036. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance following the disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquake affecting the ionian islands in particular lefkada and the northern parts of ithaca and kefalonia ). the quakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the greek authorities initially estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 66 073 345. as the above amount represents 2,1% of the gdp of the nuts 2 region of the ionian islands concerned (based on eurostat 2014 data) and exceeds the regional gdp threshold of 1,5%, the disaster is a regional disaster within the meaning of article 2 (3) of the eusfa regulation. in accordance with article 4a (2) of the eafrd regulation, at the request of greece, the commission paid an advance of eur 164 798, representing 10% of the contribution from the fund. the amount to be paid after deduction of the 10% advance already paid shall be eur 1 487 036. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance following the disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquake affecting the ionian islands in particular lefkada and the northern parts of ithaca and kefalonia ). the quakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the greek authorities initially estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 66 073 345. as the above amount represents 2,1% of the gdp of the nuts 2 region of the ionian islands concerned (based on eurostat 2014 data) and exceeds the regional gdp threshold of 1,5%, the disaster is a regional disaster within the meaning of article 2 (3) of the eusfa regulation. in accordance with article 4a (2) of the eafrd regulation, at the request of greece, the commission paid an advance of eur 164 798, representing 10% of the contribution from the fund. the amount to be paid after deduction of the 10% advance already paid shall be eur 1 487 036. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance following the disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquake affecting the ionian islands in particular lefkada and the northern parts of ithaca and kefalonia ). the quakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the greek authorities initially estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 66 073 345. as the above amount represents 2,1% of the gdp of the nuts 2 region of the ionian islands concerned (based on eurostat 2014 data) and exceeds the regional gdp threshold of 1,5%, the disaster is a regional disaster within the meaning of article 2 (3) of the eusfa regulation. in accordance with article 4a (2) of the eafrd regulation, at the request of greece, the commission paid an advance of eur 164 798, representing 10% of the contribution from the fund. the amount to be paid after deduction of the 10% advance already paid shall be eur 1 487 036. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance following the disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquake affecting the ionian islands in particular lefkada and the northern parts of ithaca and kefalonia ). the quakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the greek authorities initially estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 66 073 345. as the above amount represents 2,1% of the gdp of the nuts 2 region of the ionian islands concerned (based on eurostat 2014 data) and exceeds the regional gdp threshold of 1,5%, the disaster is a regional disaster within the meaning of article 2 (3) of the eusfa regulation. in accordance with article 4a (2) of the eafrd regulation, at the request of greece, the commission paid an advance of eur 164 798, representing 10% of the contribution from the fund. the amount to be paid after deduction of the 10% advance already paid shall be eur 1 487 036. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance following the disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquake affecting the ionian islands in particular lefkada and the northern parts of ithaca and kefalonia ). the quakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the greek authorities initially estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 66 073 345. as the above amount represents 2,1% of the gdp of the nuts 2 region of the ionian islands concerned (based on eurostat 2014 data) and exceeds the regional gdp threshold of 1,5%, the disaster is a regional disaster within the meaning of article 2 (3) of the eusfa regulation. in accordance with article 4a (2) of the eafrd regulation, at the request of greece, the commission paid an advance of eur 164 798, representing 10% of the contribution from the fund. the amount to be paid after deduction of the 10% advance already paid shall be eur 1 487 036. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the islands of greece were struck by an earthquake in 2015. the european solidarity fund was set up to help countries affected by natural disasters. unfortunately, this fund has a budget of only eur 500 million per year, of which this report provides for the payment of only eur 1.6 million. all aid is needed for the victims, but i find the budget itself to be very small compared to what is being spent in the union on unnecessary things.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands on 17 november 2015, greece submitted an application on 5 february 2016 to mobilise the fund. the greek authorities have estimated the direct damage caused by the earthquake at eur 66 073 345. this amount exceeds the regional gdp threshold of 1,5% and the earthquake is therefore considered a regional disaster. the commission therefore submitted to the european parliament and the council a proposal for a decision to mobilise eur 1 651 834 from the solidarity fund for greece in the form of commitment and payment appropriations. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the report summarises the ep and the emi's decision on the assistance to be charged to the european union solidarity fund following the earthquake in the greek ionian islands in november 2015. the committee on budgets recommends that the report be adopted swiftly in order to allow the earmarked funds to be disbursed as soon as possible. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. finland has submitted an application, under reference number egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft, for a financial contribution from the egf, following a redundancies in microsoft mobile oy and eight related suppliers, amounting to 2161 persons, under the regulation on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. finland plans six types of measures for the benefit of the dismissed workers concerned by the application: coaching and other preparatory measures; employment and business services; labour market training; salary support; start-up aid; and reimbursement of travel, accommodation and relocation costs. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ finland has submitted an application under reference number egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies of 2161 persons at microsoft mobile oy and eight related suppliers, under the regulation on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. finland plans six types of measures for the benefit of the dismissed workers concerned by the application: coaching and other preparatory measures; employment and business services; labour market training; salary support; start-up aid; and reimbursement of travel, accommodation and relocation costs. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ finland has submitted an application under reference number egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies of 2161 persons at microsoft mobile oy and eight related suppliers, under the regulation on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. finland plans six types of measures for the benefit of the dismissed workers concerned by the application: coaching and other preparatory measures; employment and business services; labour market training; salary support; start-up aid; and reimbursement of travel, accommodation and relocation costs. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ finland has submitted an application under reference number egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies of 2161 persons at microsoft mobile oy and eight related suppliers, under the regulation on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. finland plans six types of measures for the benefit of the dismissed workers concerned by the application: coaching and other preparatory measures; employment and business services; labour market training; salary support; start-up aid; and reimbursement of travel, accommodation and relocation costs. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ finland has submitted an application under reference number egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies of 2161 persons at microsoft mobile oy and eight related suppliers, under the regulation on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. finland plans six types of measures for the benefit of the dismissed workers concerned by the application: coaching and other preparatory measures; employment and business services; labour market training; salary support; start-up aid; and reimbursement of travel, accommodation and relocation costs. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ finland has submitted an application under reference number egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies of 2161 persons at microsoft mobile oy and eight related suppliers, under the regulation on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. finland plans six types of measures for the benefit of the dismissed workers concerned by the application: coaching and other preparatory measures; employment and business services; labour market training; salary support; start-up aid; and reimbursement of travel, accommodation and relocation costs. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ finland has submitted an application under reference number egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies of 2161 persons at microsoft mobile oy and eight related suppliers, under the regulation on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. finland plans six types of measures for the benefit of the dismissed workers concerned by the application: coaching and other preparatory measures; employment and business services; labour market training; salary support; start-up aid; and reimbursement of travel, accommodation and relocation costs. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 11 march 2016, finland submitted to the commission an application to mobilise the fund, in order to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by microsoft in finland and by eight related suppliers and downstream companies. the measures concern 1441 of the 2161 workers made redundant. six types of personalised services are intended to be provided to redundant workers upon request, namely (i) counselling and other preparatory measures, (ii) employment and business services, (iii) labour market training, (iv) salary support, (v) start-up aid and (vi) reimbursement of travel, accommodation and relocation costs. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the fund have been met and that the planned measures constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities and has therefore submitted to the parliament and the council a proposal for a decision to mobilise eur 5 364 000 from the fund in the form of commitment and payment appropriations for finland. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the proposal gives the green light for the application of the european globalisation adjustment fund in several regions of finland. the fund would provide eur 5 364 000 to deal with the wave of redundancies at microsoft, which affected 2 161 people, and to integrate the unemployed into the labour market. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. sweden submitted an application on 31 march 2016 for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. the measures are expected to involve 918 of the 1556 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution. in the it and telecommunications sector, faced with stagnating growth and stronger competition from asian manufacturers, ericsson reduced its production of telecommunications hardware and gradually reduced its staff in sweden. for the regions concerned, a relatively large group of older workers with similar backgrounds were made redundant and the majority of these workers do not have the skills sought in the local labour market. the personalised services for redundant workers co-financed by the egf include: counselling and career guidance; protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures; education and training; and job-search allowance. participants aged 50 and over receive special attention in motivation training and career planning. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ sweden submitted an application on 31 march 2016 for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. the measures are expected to involve 918 of the 1556 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution. in the it and telecommunications sector, faced with stagnating growth and stronger competition from asian manufacturers, ericsson reduced its production of telecommunications hardware and gradually reduced its staff in sweden. for the regions concerned, a relatively large group of older workers with similar backgrounds were made redundant and the majority of these workers do not have the skills sought in the local labour market. the personalised services for redundant workers co-financed by the egf include: counselling and career guidance; protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures; education and training; and job-search allowance. participants aged 50 and over receive special attention in motivation training and career planning. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ sweden submitted an application on 31 march 2016 for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. the measures are expected to involve 918 of the 1556 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution. in the it and telecommunications sector, faced with stagnating growth and stronger competition from asian manufacturers, ericsson reduced its production of telecommunications hardware and gradually reduced its staff in sweden. for the regions concerned, a relatively large group of older workers with similar backgrounds were made redundant and the majority of these workers do not have the skills sought in the local labour market. the personalised services for redundant workers co-financed by the egf include: counselling and career guidance; protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures; education and training; and job-search allowance. participants aged 50 and over receive special attention in motivation training and career planning. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ sweden submitted an application on 31 march 2016 for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. the measures are expected to involve 918 of the 1556 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution. in the it and telecommunications sector, faced with stagnating growth and stronger competition from asian manufacturers, ericsson reduced its production of telecommunications hardware and gradually reduced its staff in sweden. for the regions concerned, a relatively large group of older workers with similar backgrounds were made redundant and the majority of these workers do not have the skills sought in the local labour market. the personalised services for redundant workers co-financed by the egf include: counselling and career guidance; protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures; education and training; and job-search allowance. participants aged 50 and over receive special attention in motivation training and career planning. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ sweden submitted an application on 31 march 2016 for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. the measures are expected to involve 918 of the 1556 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution. in the it and telecommunications sector, faced with stagnating growth and stronger competition from asian manufacturers, ericsson reduced its production of telecommunications hardware and gradually reduced its staff in sweden. for the regions concerned, a relatively large group of older workers with similar backgrounds were made redundant and the majority of these workers do not have the skills sought in the local labour market. the personalised services for redundant workers co-financed by the egf include: counselling and career guidance; protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures; education and training; and job-search allowance. participants aged 50 and over receive special attention in motivation training and career planning. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ sweden submitted an application on 31 march 2016 for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. the measures are expected to involve 918 of the 1556 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution. in the it and telecommunications sector, faced with stagnating growth and stronger competition from asian manufacturers, ericsson reduced its production of telecommunications hardware and gradually reduced its staff in sweden. for the regions concerned, a relatively large group of older workers with similar backgrounds were made redundant and the majority of these workers do not have the skills sought in the local labour market. the personalised services for redundant workers co-financed by the egf include: counselling and career guidance; protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures; education and training; and job-search allowance. participants aged 50 and over receive special attention in motivation training and career planning. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ sweden submitted an application on 31 march 2016 for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. the measures are expected to involve 918 of the 1556 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution. in the it and telecommunications sector, faced with stagnating growth and stronger competition from asian manufacturers, ericsson reduced its production of telecommunications hardware and gradually reduced its staff in sweden. for the regions concerned, a relatively large group of older workers with similar backgrounds were made redundant and the majority of these workers do not have the skills sought in the local labour market. the personalised services for redundant workers co-financed by the egf include: counselling and career guidance; protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures; education and training; and job-search allowance. participants aged 50 and over receive special attention in motivation training and career planning. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 31 march 2016, sweden submitted to the commission an application to mobilise the fund, in order to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson in sweden. the measures concern 918 workers made redundant. four types of personalised services are intended to be provided to redundant workers upon request, namely: (i) counselling and career guidance consisting of detailed analysis and personalised planning, guidance, counselling and motivational training and career planning; (ii) protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures; (iii) education and training; (iv) financial allowance for job search. the commission has concluded that the application fulfils the conditions for a financial contribution from the fund and that the planned measures constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities and has therefore submitted a proposal for a decision to the european parliament and the council to mobilise eur 3 957 918 from the fund in the form of commitment and payment appropriations for sweden. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the proposal gives the green light for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in several regions of sweden. the fund would provide eur 3 957 918 to help telefonsaktiebolaget lm ericsson cope with the wave of redundancies affecting 1 556 people and to integrate the unemployed into the labour market. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ on 1 april 2016, the deputy prosecutor general of the hellenic republic requested the suspension of the immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis, member of the european parliament, in connection with proceedings proposed by the public prosecutor's office of the city of retimno, concerning a suspected breach of trust committed in retimno (crete) as an associate in the course of his duties between 2000 and 2002. in its report, the committee on legal affairs notes that the proposed legal proceedings are clearly not linked to the office of member of the european parliament of mr grammatikakis, but to his former position as rector of the senate of the university of crete, and that there is no indication that they were initiated with the aim of causing political damage to the member in question. therefore, in accordance with the request of the member concerned, mr grammatikakis, it proposes to the parliament that the immunity be suspended. however, the report notes that the proposed court proceedings relate to a meeting held on 8 march 1996 and that a previous court proceeding in relation to the same case had already covered the period from 2000 onwards and had resulted in the acquittal of all the accused. it also expresses its dissatisfaction with the fact that the suspension of immunity is requested 20 years after the events took place and that the greek judicial system did not bring charges against giorgos grammatikakis during this period and only now, during his term as a member of the european parliament, intends to do so. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur proposes to suspend the immunity. i voted in favor of the motion.
my fellow members of parliament! i ask you to imagine the following situation: you go to a demonstration, you exercise your basic human right to express yourself. the demonstration is brutally broken up, you are produced in handcuffs, you are imprisoned, and then you are subjected to arbitrary criminal proceedings. and then imagine that you're a patriot, you express strong opinions, critical opinions, and then you find yourself accused of a terrorist act that could get you life. if you imagine these situations, you will have no doubt that you must vote yes, as i did, to the motion, the essence of which is that everyone has the right to protection in criminal proceedings, and that this must be provided free of charge and of a high standard to those in need.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional immunity from costs for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on immunity in european arrest warrant proceedings can be considered as part of the roadmap to strengthen the procedural rights of the accused in criminal proceedings adopted on 30 november 2009 with the aim of establishing common minimum rules in the member states. after difficult negotiations, a mutually acceptable text has been reached and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i vote in favour of the initiative. in my view, a satisfactory compromise has been reached in the trilateral negotiations, which successfully contributes to the definition of common european minimum standards and does not impose a disproportionate burden in the field of criminal procedure.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional immunity from costs for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on immunity in european arrest warrant proceedings can be considered as part of the roadmap to strengthen the procedural rights of the accused in criminal proceedings adopted on 30 november 2009 with the aim of establishing common minimum rules in the member states. after difficult negotiations, a mutually acceptable text has been reached and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i vote in favour of the initiative. in my view, a satisfactory compromise has been reached in the trilateral negotiations, which successfully contributes to the definition of common european minimum standards and does not impose a disproportionate burden in the field of criminal procedure.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional immunity from costs for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on immunity in european arrest warrant proceedings can be considered as part of the roadmap to strengthen the procedural rights of the accused in criminal proceedings adopted on 30 november 2009 with the aim of establishing common minimum rules in the member states. after difficult negotiations, a mutually acceptable text has been reached and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i vote in favour of the initiative. in my view, a satisfactory compromise has been reached in the trilateral negotiations, which successfully contributes to the definition of common european minimum standards and does not impose a disproportionate burden in the field of criminal procedure.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional immunity from costs for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on immunity in european arrest warrant proceedings can be considered as part of the roadmap to strengthen the procedural rights of the accused in criminal proceedings adopted on 30 november 2009 with the aim of establishing common minimum rules in the member states. after difficult negotiations, a mutually acceptable text has been reached and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i vote in favour of the initiative. in my view, a satisfactory compromise has been reached in the trilateral negotiations, which successfully contributes to the definition of common european minimum standards and does not impose a disproportionate burden in the field of criminal procedure.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional immunity from costs for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on immunity in european arrest warrant proceedings can be considered as part of the roadmap to strengthen the procedural rights of the accused in criminal proceedings adopted on 30 november 2009 with the aim of establishing common minimum rules in the member states. after difficult negotiations, a mutually acceptable text has been reached and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i vote in favour of the initiative. in my view, a satisfactory compromise has been reached in the trilateral negotiations, which successfully contributes to the definition of common european minimum standards and does not impose a disproportionate burden in the field of criminal procedure.
in writing. ‒ provisional financial assistance for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and financial assistance in european arrest warrant proceedings. the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional immunity from costs of suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on immunity from costs in european arrest warrant proceedings can be considered as part of the roadmap to strengthen the procedural rights of the accused in criminal proceedings adopted on 30 november 2009 with the aim of establishing common minimum rules in the member states. after difficult negotiations, a mutually acceptable text has been reached and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i vote in favour of the initiative. in my view, a satisfactory compromise has been reached in the trilateral negotiations, which successfully contributes to the definition of common european minimum standards and does not impose a disproportionate burden in the field of criminal procedure.
in writing. any of us could be in a situation where, through no fault of our own, we are being prosecuted by official bodies. in many cases, under absurd circumstances. prosecutors are not operating without any real control, acting on political orders. the proposal contains fair, fair, reasonable and rule of law rules, which the libe committee has supplemented with additional guarantee rules. the proposal for a directive on the provisional costs of suspected and accused persons deprived of liberty and on the costs of european arrest warrant proceedings should therefore be clearly supported.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on temporary legal aid for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings was adopted by the european commission on 27 november 2013. the right to legal aid is inseparably linked to the right to have recourse to a lawyer. for those who do not have the necessary financial means, only legal aid can ensure the exercise of the right to legal aid. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament adopt the proposal at first reading with 45 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional immunity from costs for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on immunity in european arrest warrant proceedings can be considered as part of the roadmap to strengthen the procedural rights of the accused in criminal proceedings adopted on 30 november 2009 with the aim of establishing common minimum rules in the member states. after difficult negotiations, a mutually acceptable text has been reached and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i vote in favour of the initiative. in my view, a satisfactory compromise has been reached in the trilateral negotiations, which successfully contributes to the definition of common european minimum standards and does not impose a disproportionate burden in the field of criminal procedure.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to lay the foundations for common minimum legal aid in terms of temporary immunity from costs for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and immunity from costs in european arrest warrant proceedings. i voted for the motion to pass.
madam president, what could the european union do to stop the mass and increasingly intolerable migration of people to europe, taking into account the rights of migrants in a deprived situation and the rights of europe's indigenous peoples? well, first of all, by dealing with the root causes of wars, armed conflicts. what would that take? he also blocks the financing of isis and other terrorist organizations. what would that be? the supply of arms to dictatorships and proxy wars by eu member states and companies should be strictly controlled and prohibited. and we should also be scrutinizing every transaction that could potentially be used to fund isis and other terrorist organizations because someone is supporting them. what do they do instead? they're making a show of exporting drugs that are punishable by death, hundreds of pages of documents. they control this, they regulate that, but they don't control the arms trade and isis funding. this is not a solution!
in writing. ‒ eu-wide export controls are a tool of external trade policy that serve broader policy objectives. export controls are an important policy tool of the european union. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights and to the global eradication of the death penalty and torture by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation expresses the european union's long-standing ambition to combine prohibitions with requirements for authorisation of trade in the products listed in its annexes. it introduces a ban on equipment and technical assistance intended solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty (annex ii) and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection (annex iii). the draft opinion also proposes the creation of a group for the coordination of installations and the introduction of a periodic review mechanism and a more regular system for sharing information and reporting in order to strengthen control and the effective implementation of the regulation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ eu-wide export controls are a tool of external trade policy that serve broader policy objectives. export controls are an important policy tool of the european union. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights and to the global eradication of the death penalty and torture by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation expresses the european union's long-standing ambition to combine prohibitions with requirements for authorisation of trade in the products listed in its annexes. it introduces a ban on equipment and technical assistance for use solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty (annex ii) and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection (annex iii). the draft opinion also proposes the creation of a group for the coordination of installations and the introduction of a periodic review mechanism and a more regular system for sharing information and reporting in order to strengthen control and the effective implementation of the regulation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ eu-wide export controls are a tool of external trade policy that serve broader policy objectives. export controls are an important policy tool of the european union. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights and to the global eradication of the death penalty and torture by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation expresses the european union's long-standing ambition to combine prohibitions with requirements for authorisation of trade in the products listed in its annexes. it introduces a ban on equipment and technical assistance for use solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty (annex ii) and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection (annex iii). the draft opinion also proposes the creation of a group for the coordination of installations and the introduction of a periodic review mechanism and a more regular system for sharing information and reporting in order to strengthen control and the effective implementation of the regulation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ eu-wide export controls are a tool of external trade policy that serve broader policy objectives. export controls are an important policy tool of the european union. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights and to the global eradication of the death penalty and torture by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation expresses the european union's long-standing ambition to combine prohibitions with requirements for authorisation of trade in the products listed in its annexes. it introduces a ban on equipment and technical assistance for use solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty (annex ii) and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection (annex iii). the draft opinion also proposes the creation of a group for the coordination of installations and the introduction of a periodic review mechanism and a more regular system for sharing information and reporting in order to strengthen control and the effective implementation of the regulation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ eu-wide export controls are a tool of external trade policy that serve broader policy objectives. export controls are an important policy tool of the european union. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights and to the global eradication of the death penalty and torture by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation expresses the european union's long-standing ambition to combine prohibitions with requirements for authorisation of trade in the products listed in its annexes. it introduces a ban on equipment and technical assistance for use solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty (annex ii) and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection (annex iii). the draft opinion also proposes the creation of a group for the coordination of installations and the introduction of a periodic review mechanism and a more regular system for sharing information and reporting in order to strengthen control and the effective implementation of the regulation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ eu-wide export controls are a tool of external trade policy that serve broader policy objectives. export controls are an important policy tool of the european union. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights and to the global eradication of the death penalty and torture by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation expresses the european union's long-standing ambition to combine prohibitions with requirements for authorisation of trade in the products listed in its annexes. it introduces a ban on equipment and technical assistance for use solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty (annex ii) and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection (annex iii). the draft opinion also proposes the creation of a group for the coordination of installations and the introduction of a periodic review mechanism and a more regular system for sharing information and reporting in order to strengthen control and the effective implementation of the regulation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ eu-wide export controls are a tool of external trade policy that serve broader policy objectives. export controls are an important policy tool of the european union. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights and to the global eradication of the death penalty and torture by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation expresses the european union's long-standing ambition to combine prohibitions with requirements for authorisation of trade in the products listed in its annexes. it introduces a ban on equipment and technical assistance for use solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty (annex ii) and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection (annex iii). the draft opinion also proposes the creation of a group for the coordination of installations and the introduction of a periodic review mechanism and a more regular system for sharing information and reporting in order to strengthen control and the effective implementation of the regulation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it shall contribute to the achievement of the global abolition of the death penalty and torture by combining prohibitions with trade authorisation requirements for listed products. it introduces a ban on devices that can be used exclusively for torture and the execution of capital punishment and a licensing system for products that, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection. in 2014, the commission proposed to the european parliament and the council to amend that regulation in order to review the union control of trade in instruments of torture and to update the list of controlled products. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament adopt the draft at first reading with 38 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ eu-wide export controls are a tool of external trade policy that serve broader policy objectives. export controls are an important policy tool of the european union. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights and to the global eradication of the death penalty and torture by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation expresses the european union's long-standing ambition to combine prohibitions with requirements for authorisation of trade in the products listed in its annexes. it introduces a ban on equipment and technical assistance for use solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty (annex ii) and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection (annex iii). the draft opinion also proposes the creation of a group for the coordination of installations and the introduction of a periodic review mechanism and a more regular system for sharing information and reporting in order to strengthen control and the effective implementation of the regulation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that it reaffirms the european union's leading role in the fight against the death penalty and torture worldwide. the new 'emergency procedure' for instruments and substances used for capital punishment and torture will allow states to ban the export or transfer of such items, even on the basis of a clear suspicion, and to prohibit their online trade, advertising, training and knowledge transfer. the eu's experience in the past of such restrictions having made a significant contribution to the fight against this repulsive and inhumane practice in partner countries, i am confident that with the ep's decision , which enjoys wide political support , this will continue even more effectively, until the total abolition of torture and the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ the torture regulation contributes to the global abolition of the death penalty and torture, which is a longstanding eu objective. it shall contribute to the achievement of those objectives by combining prohibitions with the requirements for authorisation of trade in the listed products. it introduces a ban on equipment and related technical assistance intended solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection. i supported the adoption of the report, in agreement with the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the approval of the strategic cooperation agreement between china and europol. such a strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, and therefore the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged may include the field of expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis and information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as training activities and the provision of advice and support for specific criminal investigations. the strategic cooperation agreement between china and europol would help and strengthen the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation. on these grounds, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), china is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, destination and transit. the strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and china is therefore important, allowing for the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, strategic analysis results, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as advice and support for specific criminal investigations. europol clearly needs to work with china, which is why i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), china is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, destination and transit. the strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and china is therefore important, allowing for the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, strategic analysis results, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as advice and support for specific criminal investigations. europol clearly needs to cooperate with china, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), china is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, destination and transit. the strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and china is therefore important, allowing for the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, strategic analysis results, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as advice and support for specific criminal investigations. europol clearly needs to cooperate with china, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), china is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, destination and transit. the strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and china is therefore important, allowing for the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, strategic analysis results, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as advice and support for specific criminal investigations. europol clearly needs to cooperate with china, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), china is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, destination and transit. the strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and china is therefore important, allowing for the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, strategic analysis results, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as advice and support for specific criminal investigations. europol clearly needs to cooperate with china, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), china is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, destination and transit. the strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and china is therefore important, allowing for the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, strategic analysis results, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as advice and support for specific criminal investigations. europol clearly needs to cooperate with china, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), china is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, destination and transit. the strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and china is therefore important, allowing for the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, strategic analysis results, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as advice and support for specific criminal investigations. europol clearly needs to cooperate with china, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of this initiative.
in writing. china's dynamic development is unfortunately not limited to the economy, but also to its increasingly important role in international crime, and in some sectors of organised crime it is a clear frontrunner. such areas are illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, euro counterfeiting, intellectual property infringement, sports corruption, cybercrime and money laundering activities. the proposal to establish strategic cooperation between europol and china, which may concern the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified data, is therefore clearly to be supported.
in writing. ‒ the european police office (europol) has a clear operational need to cooperate with china. according to europol, china is becoming increasingly important as a country of origin, destination and transit in the fight against organised crime. in addition, china is home to a number of highly influential organized crime groups. the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations shall be approved by the council after consulting parliament. the council has now proposed to approve the agreement on strategic cooperation between china and europol. the agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament approve the council's draft as it would help and strengthen the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), china is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, destination and transit. the strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and china is therefore important, allowing for the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, strategic analysis results, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as advice and support for specific criminal investigations. europol clearly needs to cooperate with china, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's opinion agreeing to the council's approval of the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the people's republic of china. i took note that europol had already concluded an agreement with a third country (brazil) with the same content. it is clear that china's importance in the fight against international organised crime, its role as a prime source and transit country, including in particular in the areas of international illicit trade and smuggling, the trade in drugs and counterfeit goods, money laundering and cybercrime, is an indispensable partner for the effective protection of european security interests. to this end, the agreement shall facilitate better exploitation of the various possibilities for exchanging methodologies, information and experience. however, i consider it important that the agreement excludes the disclosure of personal data to the other party, so that there should be no concern regarding the protection of data of european citizens in relation to the contract.
in writing. ‒ the strategic agreement between europol and the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china provides for the exchange of information, but excludes the sharing of personal information. i voted in favour of the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between china and europol as it would help in the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! this report is also closely linked to the roots of migration, as it is about the relationship between the european union and africa. i voted in the spirit of what an african university professor, who felt a responsibility for his country and his continent, told me at a conference when i asked him what the european union could do to end the misery in africa. he said that what he could do was to break the multifaceted, corrupt relationship that exists between corrupt european political and economic leaders, western european multinational corporations and corrupt african local leaders, and that is essentially the plundering of africa's natural resources, its raw materials and other resources. europe therefore has a heavy responsibility in the african misery, which cannot be cured by mass immigration of african people.
in writing. ‒ the economic partnership agreement serves the smooth and gradual integration of acp countries into the world economy, in particular the full exploitation of regional integration and south-south trade. the specific activities should be carried out in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, through regional agreements adapted to specific regional needs and to the common interests of the eu and the region. in assessing the agreement, it should be noted that the vast majority of the acp countries, in terms of population, are african countries with a population approaching one billion, while the caribbean countries have a population of only 39 million and the pacific countries 11 million. so the relationship with africa is crucial to the agreement, not just because of the population, but because it can be a starting point for immigration to europe. it is in europe's fundamental interest to conclude agreements with african countries that would help people to remain in their countries, for example by developing agriculture, industry and trade to meet local needs and by transferring the know-how needed for this purpose free of charge. on the contrary, as the quoted parts of the report show, the main objective is to integrate african countries into the world economy, which in practice means the acquisition of their markets by multinational companies. i abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ the overall objectives of the cotonou agreement, which provides a contractual framework for relations between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp), clearly include: reducing and eventually eradicating poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy. the partnership is based on certain core values and principles, including respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance. unfortunately, progress towards the objectives of poverty reduction and the integration of acp countries into the world economy has been insufficient. this is particularly relevant today, as some acp countries are sending out significant numbers of economic migrants, further complicating the management of the influx of refugees from war zones into europe. the new agreement must be a political project based on the principle of accountability and must clearly leave behind the donor-favoured mentality. i believe that cooperation should be in areas of common interest where mutual benefits are expected, not just in economic terms, but also in peace, security, human rights and the rule of law, good governance and democracy, migration, the environment, climate change. cooperation should contribute to the well-being of the population in both acp and eu member states. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future of acp-eu relations. the report addresses important issues such as the elimination of the donor-beneficiary relationship and the establishment of a relationship based on equality and autonomy. with this new approach, the eu can provide more effective and practical help to tackle the region's pressing problems, such as poverty and social inequalities. the report supports the budgetisation of the european development fund (edf) to provide more targeted and transparent funding for regional initiatives. i agree with the importance of establishing a dialogue and coherent policy coordination. in the light of this, cooperation with the countries of the region (african union, un) should be based on a more open relationship-building approach in the coming period. i believe it is important to support the private sector, also in this respect, by promoting the aforementioned self-reliance. i believe that the development of the region must be supported along these lines, and i have therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the interparliamentary delegation for africa, the pacific and the caribbean, i voted in favour of the report on the eu-acp relationship. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the issue of migration. with the right link between these regions and the eu, with a well-directed and clear-cut development policy, with humanitarian aid, the causes of migration, such as the threat of war, poverty and mass starvation, can be addressed. the eu has a primary interest in helping locally in cooperation with international organisations to contribute to solving the problem where it arises, rather than bringing it into the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the future of acp-eu relations. the report addresses important issues such as the elimination of the donor-beneficiary relationship and the establishment of a relationship based on equality and autonomy. with this new approach, the eu can provide more effective and practical help to tackle the region's pressing problems, such as poverty and social inequalities. the report supports the budgetisation of the european development fund (edf) to provide more targeted and transparent funding for regional initiatives. i agree with the importance of establishing a dialogue and coherent policy coordination. in the light of this, cooperation with the countries of the region (african union, un) should be based on a more open relationship-building approach in the coming period. i believe it is important to support the private sector, also in this respect, by promoting the aforementioned self-reliance. i believe that the development of the region must be supported along these lines, and i have therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses important issues such as the elimination of the donor-beneficiary relationship and the establishment of a relationship based on equality and autonomy. with this new approach, the eu can provide more effective and practical help to tackle the region's pressing problems, such as poverty and social inequalities. the report supports the budgetisation of the european development fund (edf) to provide more targeted and transparent funding for regional initiatives. i agree with the importance of establishing a dialogue and coherent policy coordination. in the light of this, cooperation with the countries of the region (african union, un) should be based on a more open relationship-building approach in the coming period. i believe it is important to support the private sector, also in this respect, by promoting the aforementioned self-reliance. i believe that the development of the region must be supported along these lines, and i have therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. if this did not seem obvious to some in previous years, it should be recognised in the current migrant crisis that it is in europe's fundamental interest to conclude agreements with african countries that would support the population to remain. the eu could help, for example, by developing agriculture, industry and trade to meet local needs and by providing the necessary know-how free of charge. on the other hand, the main objective remains the integration of african countries into the world economy, which in practice means the acquisition of their markets by multinational companies. it is enough to look at the experience of the former gcc countries to see what it means to be involved in world trade under the wto. the report is not supported in its entirety, because it ignores the fact that the developed countries, under their previous commitments, would have to give €100 billion a year, which could really help this region, and europe as a whole, by reducing the pressure of migration.
in writing. ‒ the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) was established by the georgetown agreement of 1975 and revised in 1992. the partnership agreement between the acp states, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, was established by the cotonou agreement, signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000 and revised in 2005 and 2010. in view of the changes that have taken place in the political and economic arenas of the acp group and in the european union since the signing of the cotonou agreement, the development committee report proposes that parliament adopt a resolution calling for a new structure to be adopted to make cooperation more effective and adapt it to new challenges. the draft resolution outlines the considerations to be taken into account in the drafting of the new agreement. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the report and its recommendations, appreciating that it puts a new foundation on cooperation with 79 partner countries under the cotonou agreement, which is due to expire in 2020. i believe that the report contains realistic proposals for a new and more effective framework for cooperation, which takes account of both the eu's united action and the divergences between the partners' situations. i consider it important that, in the context of changing circumstances, it pays particular attention to the effects of climate change and mass impoverishment, as well as to the phenomena closely linked to the global migration crisis. i am convinced that in the years ahead, it will need to engage in even broader and deeper consultation and cooperation with these important partners of the union and its member states than it has done so far.
in writing. ‒ acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and unique achievement that has strengthened the links between the peoples, countries and parliaments of the acp and the eu over the past 40 years; stresses that, in the light of the commitment of the acp countries to act together as a group, in order to increase the efficiency of cooperation and adapt it to new challenges, a new structure should be adopted which places the inherently universal aspects of the acp-eu acquis, such as human rights, gender equality, human development, commitment to good governance and democracy, the objective of the rule of law and the exchange of good practices, in a common framework, while the most important activities should be carried out in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. through regional agreements that are specific to the region and are in line with the eu's specific needs and common interests. i voted for the report.
madam president, greece received 216 billion euros in the first two bailouts. how can he still be in crisis? well, of this huge amount, barely 5% of the 9.7 billion went to the greek budget alone. the rest was taken by the creditors, mostly french and german banks. they didn't pay it back to greece, they just converted the private loan into public credit. what does the troika offer the greek people? the sale of state assets and further austerity after austerity. the situation is similar to this: we throw a life-saving rope at a drowning person, but we wrap it around his neck. and when we seemingly rescue with good intentions, we pull it out, then we strangle it with a squeeze. this is what the troika is doing to the greek people!
i'm not going to let you do this. he didn't do anything wrong. he hasn't done anything wrong in the whole world. he's waiting his turn. the practice is to go around the representatives and simply after the gue, it's the independents' turn. then the people's party. then there's the s&d. and you'll be the next to speak. so please wait. three minutes, more talk about it, it was all for nothing.
i'm not going to let you do this. i don't want to argue with you. it's perfectly on my list. he's in the s&d ranks, and i'm calling him from the s&d list. whoever wasn't there was in the gue. it was probably a translation error.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the joint debate on the commission's statement on the avoidance of conflicts of interest for former and current commissioners (2016/2893 ((rsp)) and the commission's statement on the bahamas leak (2016/2914 ((rsp)). it's a long list, the one i got my hands on. so i ask you not to take a wild card, because we're not going to get to the end of this debate. i'm sorry we had such a bad afternoon.
in writing. as decision-makers in the union, our primary responsibility is to protect our citizens. we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that drivers who are doing their jobs and who have to pass through calais are not subjected to physical violence, that they do not have to fear that someone will illegally grab their truck. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we can't have a situation where we can't maintain law and order. the situation in calais threatens the most fundamental achievement of the union, the free movement of eu citizens and goods. i therefore call on the commission to give priority to these issues, to the situation in calais, because this is the real rule of law issue, and the citizens of the union are waiting for concrete action here.
mr. president, i have to ask you... a year and a half ago, as vice-chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, i started my campaign here in parliament and in the commission to hear the proposal of two young german activists, vincent-immanuel herr and martin speer. i've hit a lot of walls, i've been pushed back by the committee, i've had my pilot project proposal voted down in this house, but now i see that there's been a broad cooperation, and i thank mr. weber and the other supporters for that. that is why i suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that we give a sharp answer to the populists who are showing that there is no need for the european union! let's give a big slap to the nationalists who want to bring the people of europe together. and let's use this program to show everyone, even the young people who can't afford to travel, what europe is all about. so i propose, and i told commissioner bulc, that as vice-president of tourism, as head of the tourism working committee, i propose that you get involved in the project and that we reach out to the other sponsors, the tourism industry, the property taxpayers. let's make this a great european celebration.
in writing. the two most tangible benefits of the european union for citizens are the erasmus scholarships our children can take up and the promise of roaming-free telephony and internet in europe. in recent weeks, the european commission has rightly recognised that the eyes of europeans cannot be blinded by roaming free for only 90 days a year and a maximum charge for the rest of the days. the european commission is acting in the interests of european citizens by ruthlessly ending roaming. in a europe without borders, roaming charges have no place. we agree with the commission that roaming charges are a significant burden for users and that there is no alternative to the decision to phase them out. we will accept nothing less than the complete abolition of roaming charges without restrictions! in the coming months, the european parliament will have to ensure that mobile operators do not charge more for calls made abroad than for calls made at home. let us continue to work in that spirit.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have here some very short concluding remarks but i cannot resist, i would like to react to some of your questions and comments. why are we establishing an eppo which needs to have clear added-value? we see the statistics of olaf: on average only about 40% of the recommendations of olaf are sent to the member states with a clear purpose: investigate and prosecute. we have been saying for years: what can we do? the member states do not prosecute and we cannot remain helpless. we must act here. i am not criticising any specific member state, but this is the general situation. vat: yes, it must be included in pif and the eppo because, besides the many arguments which you have set out here, we have also case law. we have the case which clearly stipulates that vat is a source for the financial budget. with regards to vat, believe me, it is not easy to push the eppo towards its final adoption because we needed to open the second line of negotiations vis-a-vis the ministers of finance and vis-a-vis the tax authorities, because we will need also all these authorities to be on our side. then, especially, when the eppo is working fully, we will need not only national prosecutors, but also the police, tax authorities – and whistle-blowers – to cooperate with the eppo. we will need the cooperation of a very wide and complex puzzle of institutions at the member states’ level. so that is why we need to do this right and in a convincing way so that it will bring real added value. this added value can be, and must be, measured by finance. of course these are the benefits which we speak about: the money which will one day be brought back to national budgets and the eu budget. we are working on setting up the proper threshold for structural funds and agricultural funds and customs: at the moment this is eur 10 000, but we will continue to discuss this. for vat it should be really only a big scope of fraud, so we speak about three or five million euro for cross-border vat fraud. i want to have the eppo doing big things. it should not be established, as i said before, to replace national prosecution; it must do only big things creating big benefits. yes, we need unanimity in the council. so this will need a very strong push in regard to several member states. for me it is clear that the cohesion countries, especially, must be there because it would not be logically if we established the eppo to prosecute fraud on eu funds without having some of the member states which receive the money, which receive more than they contribute. so here i have had, along with my colleagues, a lot of work in some of the member states. the final point: speaking about the benefits. i spoke about the financial benefits, but here we must be fully aware that it is the thrust of the people in europe, taxpayers, at stake. i am always absolutely frustrated when i hear the critics, and i read the articles of the critics of the eu, who say that structural funds are only a source for fraud and corruption. where is all that ethos? this is the policy of solidarity. the rich countries are contributing money to the poorer countries and the critics say it is only there to be stolen and cheated on, and all those benefits, all those good projects, all the jobs and all that prosperity, which has been created over years thanks to this money, is forgotten. i think that we need to act here and to show taxpayers and all those critics that yes, this is the distribution of massive amounts of money, but the money is well managed and controlled. it is our duty to act, and to create the eppo as a really strong, competent and functioning european body. we have three decisive months ahead of us and i count on your support so that we will manage first the negotiations in the council and also the consent in parliament to be achieved in a reasonably short time.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for all the interventions and statements made which, in my view, clearly show the importance they attach to the establishment of eppo. at the same time, we have heard you highlight many aspects that we need to address in the remaining period of negotiations during the slovak presidency. i would like to make just two points here in my concluding remarks. first of all, it is clear to the presidency that we need to ensure that outstanding reservations are lifted in the period remaining and that the gaps in the text must be addressed properly. i dare say that we are close to finalising the text and getting an agreement on it. we will, of course, include some of the outstanding provisions, like judicial review cooperation between eppo and eurojust, in the new consolidated version. second, as many of you have indicated, it is vital that the eppo regulation be made coherent with the eurojust regulation and with the pif directive. it is clear that we need to make progress on this because the pif directive should contain the substantive law to be applied by eppo. so that message is well taken, mrs gräßle, and the presidency will try to address it in the remaining period. i wish to thank members once again and look forward to further cooperation.
in writing. in shaping the european public prosecutor's office, the council has already watered down the original commission proposal by creating the college of prosecutors, increasing the powers of national prosecutors and weakening the powers of the eppo. but there are a few things that i think neither the commission nor parliament can allow: the eppo should not be allowed to look only at cases that national prosecutors consider to be within the competence of the eppo, but should look at all cases in order to examine their actual competence. in any event, vat should remain in the protection of the financial interests of the union (pif) directive and thus fall under the jurisdiction of the general prosecutor's office. it is therefore not permissible for the prosecution to have jurisdiction only in cases where the union's share exceeds 50%, since the european interest of vat is necessarily below the above threshold. vat, as the court of justice has recognised, is an own financial resource of the union and, as such, it must be able to protect it effectively, especially when crossborder vat fraud schemes are widespread in many eu countries and cannot or do not want to be effectively detected by the authorities of the member states. failing that, the commission should withdraw its proposal and, where appropriate, consider giving the european union anti-fraud office appropriate powers instead of a public prosecutor's office.
mr juncker, my colleagues. what happened in hungary in terms of public law? the hungarian government has decided to prevent the european union from settling migrants in our country without the authorization of our parliament. he could have pushed this through the legislature with minimal opposition support. he instituted a system of checks and balances, a power-limitation element, a referendum. and he said that if the people still think that they want to support the european union's migration policy, then they will take the legal obligation back and not bring the legislative change that they originally envisioned, the constitutional change. the validity threshold would have been important here, if more than 50% had left, and the majority said yes to the european union's migration policy, then the hungarian government would have been obliged by law to refrain from its original idea. but that's not what happened, they were given a huge political mandate to confront you, so please don't misunderstand the situation. hungary has embarked on a journey that will change your ideas and europe will remain free and independent because hungary is loving.
mr president, mr minister, please. mr. vice president, i have to go. migration, but apparently there's not much new to say about migration. i've heard the old ones, but i've heard very little new. basically, the left is a big fan of immigration and strongly condemns those who treat the process of migration with suspicion. that's the attitude they're repeating. i'm left wondering why. what could explain this dense repetition? i get the impression from the repeated texts that the left doesn't want to hear opinions that differ from theirs. in fact, when he encounters such ones, he may even shrug them off. of course, it's easier this way. it's not the way to deal with reality, the way the world changes every day. but if a political force neglects, ignores the concerns of citizens, of european citizens, about migration, ignores their diminishing sense of security, then don't be surprised that more and more people are abandoning leftist values and looking elsewhere in the political arena for solutions, for solutions. hopefully, the upcoming summit will focus on the citizens' diminishing sense of security and not on the empty rhetoric of the left. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
blue-card answer. – having once been a refugee myself, i actually do know what i am talking about. i think there is a very clear distinction to be made – which you have not made, and which others do not make – between asylum seekers, genuine refugees, and economic migrants. they are a very different kettle of fish.
in writing. honourable members of the european parliament, the commission and the council! the commission notes that the visa waiver scheme is not yet fully implemented and that the visa waiver is not yet in place. while europe is being overwhelmed by hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants without any form of identity document and without the mandatory registration required by various conventions, ukrainian citizens belonging to the european community, including transcarpathian hungarians, even with visas, have to wait for hours at the few available border crossing points. the citizens of ukraine have made many sacrifices for european orientation, and in return the european union has made this symbolic gesture without delay. i therefore ask that the ukrainian dossier be treated according to its importance and that the necessary steps be taken as soon as possible to grant visa-free travel and to draw up a development and budgetary plan for the expansion of border infrastructure in order to improve international routes and border crossings, because this would finally be a tangible help for citizens.
in writing. at the next eit meeting, eu heads of state or government will meet for the first time to discuss again the joint handling of the migration and refugee crisis, after one of them viktor orbán made a blunt, direct political challenge to them, to the eit and indeed to the entire eu legal order by voting against quotas on 2 october. the referendum was invalidated thanks to the wisdom of the hungarian electorate, but the orbán government continues its anti-brussels demagogy, incitement of hatred against migrants, and its isolation from the common european solution, which it now wants to enshrine in the basic law. i believe that this european council is the only appropriate level and occasion for eu leaders to confront their hungarian colleague with the dangers of his policies, both for the hungarian people and for the future of the european union. to this end, i urge that in the preparation of the current eit agenda, it finally be recognised that it is not worthwhile and cannot be any longer to talk about an effective and common eu management of the migrant crisis in the hope of success, if europe's leaders do not put an end to orbán's minework once and for all, thus preventing the further spread of selfish, nationalist populism among the member states. despite the hungarian government's dictatorial methods and incitement campaign, they can now count on the agreement of the majority of hungarian voters.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children has established a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of illegal removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations, and thus, following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted peru's accession to accept peru's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations, and thus, following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted peru's accession to accept peru's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations, and thus, following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted peru's accession to accept peru's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children creates a system that allows for cooperation between contracting states. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations, and thus, following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted peru's accession to accept peru's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations, and thus, following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted peru's accession to accept peru's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations, and thus, following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted peru's accession to accept peru's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations, and thus, following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted peru's accession to accept peru's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children and which ensures the immediate return of the child who has been removed. the convention has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. peru has notified its intention to accede to the convention. since the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations, the european union cannot ratify an amendment to the treaty to that effect. however, since the opinion of the european court of justice of 14 october 2014 states that the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, those member states which have not yet ratified this supplement (austria and romania) will now only be able to do so with the authorisation of the european council. the council therefore intends to adopt a decision authorising austria and romania to ratify the accession of peru, subject to consultation of the parliament. in its report, the committee on legal affairs recommends that parliament approve the council's proposal for a decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations, and thus, following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted peru's accession to accept peru's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's approval of the proposal because i am convinced that this will also strengthen the international protection of children who are illegally taken abroad. i am aware that the relevant hague convention has proved to be one of the most widespread and in practice successful international legal instruments over the past three decades, often and actively used by states parties as a legal basis for establishing jurisdiction and conducting proceedings in respect of children who have found themselves in difficult and contentious situations following the divorce of their parents. the eu currently has exclusive external competence to act in such matters, but for the new states acceding to the convention, member state ratification or a corresponding council decision is required for the entry into force of the between peru and the eu, as appropriate. given that the hague convention can be made more effective the more states that join the system, i welcome peru's accession.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children has established a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of illegal removal of children. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the courts of that state. following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania not yet accepting the accession of peru to accept the accession of peru. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole. i voted for the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children has established a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of illegal removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations and that, following kazakhstan's accession to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted kazakhstan's accession to accept kazakhstan's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations and that, following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted the accession of kazakhstan to accept the accession of peru. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children creates a system that allows for cooperation between contracting states. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations and that, following kazakhstan's accession to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted kazakhstan's accession to accept kazakhstan's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations and that, following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted the accession of kazakhstan to accept the accession of peru. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations and that, following kazakhstan's accession to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted kazakhstan's accession to accept kazakhstan's accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations and that, following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted the accession of kazakhstan to accept the accession of peru. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations and that, following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted the accession of kazakhstan to accept the accession of peru. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children and which ensures the immediate return of the child who has been removed. the convention has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. kazakhstan has announced its intention to accede to the convention. since the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations, the european union cannot ratify an amendment to the treaty to that effect. however, since the opinion of the european court of justice of 14 october 2014 states that the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, member states (with the exception of the netherlands, which had already ratified the addendum, and denmark, which was excluded from the union's civil justice policy) can now do so only with the authorisation of the european council. the council therefore intends to adopt a decision authorising the member states to ratify the accession of kazakhstan, subject to consultation of the parliament. in its report, the committee on legal affairs recommends that parliament approve the council's proposal for a decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations and that, following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted the accession of kazakhstan to accept the accession of peru. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's approval of the proposal because i am convinced that this will also strengthen the international protection of children who are illegally taken abroad. i am aware that the relevant hague convention has proved to be one of the most widespread and in practice successful international legal instruments over the past three decades, often and actively used by states parties as a legal basis for establishing jurisdiction and conducting proceedings in respect of children who have found themselves in difficult and contentious situations following the divorce of their parents. the eu currently has exclusive external competence to act in such matters, but for the new states acceding to the convention, member state ratification or a corresponding council decision is required for the entry into force of the between kazakhstan and the eu, as appropriate. given that the hague convention works more effectively the more states that are part of the system, i also welcome kazakhstan's accession.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children has established a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of illegal removal of children. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the courts of that state. following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, a council decision is required authorising member states (with the exception of denmark, which is excluded from the union's civil justice policy, and the netherlands, which has already accepted the accession of kazakhstan) to accept the accession of kazakhstan. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children has established a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of illegal removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and that, following the accession of korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted korea's accession to accept korea's accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and that, following the accession of korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted korea's accession to accept korea's accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and that, following the accession of korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted korea's accession to accept korea's accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children creates a system that allows for cooperation between contracting states. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and that, following the accession of korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted korea's accession to accept korea's accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and that, following the accession of korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted korea's accession to accept korea's accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and that, following the accession of korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted korea's accession to accept korea's accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and that, following the accession of korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted korea's accession to accept korea's accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and that, following the accession of korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted korea's accession to accept korea's accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children and which ensures the immediate return of the child who has been removed. the convention has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the republic of korea has notified its intention to accede to the convention. since the convention does not provide for independent action by international organisations, the european union cannot ratify an amendment to the treaty to that effect. however, since the opinion of the european court of justice of 14 october 2014 states that the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, member states (with the exception of the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which had already ratified the addendum, and denmark, which was excluded from the union's civil justice policy) can now do so only with the authorisation of the european council. the council therefore intends to adopt a decision authorising the member states to ratify the accession of south korea, subject to consultation of the parliament. in its report, the committee on legal affairs recommends that parliament approve the council's proposal for a decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of the removal of children establishes a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of the removal of children. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. the eu currently has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states can therefore no longer act on their own. the problem arises from the fact that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and that, following the accession of korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising two member states austria and romania which have not yet accepted korea's accession to accept korea's accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's approval of the proposal because i am convinced that this will also strengthen the international protection of children who are illegally taken abroad. i am aware that the relevant hague convention has proved to be one of the most widespread and in practice successful international legal instruments over the past three decades, often and actively used by states parties as a legal basis for establishing jurisdiction and conducting proceedings in respect of children who have found themselves in difficult and contentious situations following the divorce of their parents. the eu currently has exclusive external competence to act in such matters, but for the new states acceding to the convention, member state ratification or a council decision to that effect is required for the entry into force of the between korea and the eu, as appropriate. given that the hague convention is more effective the more countries that join the system, i welcome the accession of the koreas.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children has established a system which allows for cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to the problem of illegal removal of children. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the courts of that state. following the accession of south korea to the convention, a council decision is required authorising member states (with the exception of denmark, which is excluded from the union's civil justice policy, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted the accession of south korea) to accept the accession of south korea. this will allow the convention to enter into force between south korea and the whole of the european union. following the s&d's position, i voted in favour of the report.
mr president i was very pleased to see the term "food self-sufficiency" in the world food and food security report. we've long known that the solution to hunger is food sovereignty, which conceals the fact that every nation, every community has the right to control and use its own land, and that's why it's illegal for foreigners or even domestic oligarchs to take it. and part of food self-determination is that every nation, every community has the right to grow its own food. i must therefore say that this objective, which is rightly stated in this report, is in direct opposition to what the european union is doing in the opposite direction, for example with the free trade agreements with either canada or the united states, which are in direct opposition to bringing food from far away to europe.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is surprisingly firm and almost radical in its support for concepts such as food self-determination. the text makes several references to the importance of this, particularly for developing countries. unfortunately, the reference is nowhere connected to the counterproductive nature of global food trade. a few years ago, the world organization of family farmers, via campesina, so clearly and so specifically addressed the global problem of hunger and malnutrition. the hungry today were once small farmers who could feed themselves, and they were ruined by the influx of cheap food from richer countries, which was only caused by subsidies. the draft fails to recognise that hunger and malnutrition are systemic problems (capital's resource-sucking role) that cannot be permanently remedied by aid and political rhetoric. the adoption of the text of the motion for a resolution will have profound consequences. if the commission or the council wish to maintain this, it will only be possible if free trade agreements are revised. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ my vote on the report was based on two main considerations: firstly, in order to significantly reduce or eliminate economic migration, developing countries need to promote the production of the necessary quantity and quality of food on the ground in a way that is sustainable in the long term, with minimal environmental pollution and the efficient use of natural resources. on the other hand, in accordance with the hungarian basic law, i oppose the use of gmo seeds, the trade of products produced in this way.
in writing. the problems are systemic, the result of world trade and agricultural support systems, that small farmers who once supported themselves, their families, their small communities, are now starving. only the end of land grabbing and food self-sufficiency can be a real alternative. indeed, quality and organic food can also be produced in small farms, so the waste of food must be stopped and the processes reversed. the resolution is clearly worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ the committee on development's motion for a parliament resolution deals with global nutrition and food security. it focuses on the importance of breastfeeding for human development and future life chances, food waste the european union produces a total of 88 million tonnes of food waste a year, while 842 million people worldwide, 12 per cent of the world's population, go hungry the priority of local food production, support for smallholder farmers and women farmers as food producers, access to arable land, the effects of producing food crop-based biofuels and the right to water. it recalls the commission's commitment to spend eur 3,5 billion to reduce the backwardness by at least eur 7 million by 2025 and expects the commission to honour this commitment. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion because i believe that we need global solutions to ensure the world's food and food security. international organizations and governments are working to end malnutrition and hunger by 2030. all this can be achieved by increasing productivity, sustainable and climate-resilient agriculture and food production. the aim of eliminating child hunger, which is also found in the eu, is also mentioned as an explicit objective in the recommendations of international organisations. the european union therefore needs to put things right before the issue can be resolved. the hungarian government first started to report poverty statistics in increasingly incomplete form since 2010, and then simply changed the way it calculated them. it hides the identities of disadvantaged families, the elderly, starving children, making it much harder to solve. i believe that making compulsory the use of uniform european statistics on children and pensioners would help to put an end to this blood-curdling practice. during the debate on the motion i also said that high taxes on food not only deepen poverty and make it harder to access food, but also that there is a significant amount of vat fraud in the eu due to differences in the tax burden. but there is a solution to this, and that is to harmonise food taxes at eu level.
in writing. ‒ coordinated and accelerated action is needed to end malnutrition in order to meet the 2030 agenda and to achieve sustainable development goal 2 on ending hunger. one third of the food produced worldwide, some 1.3 billion tons, is wasted, while 842 million people worldwide - 12 percent of the world's population - go hungry. the commission must fulfil its obligations and ensure appropriate forms of assistance to eradicate hunger, in accordance with its mandate. i supported the resolution.
mr president the main purpose of using the so-called eu money, or at least one of the main purposes, according to the correct interpretation, would have been to create a strong hungarian entrepreneurial layer, a strong citizenship, who would have received orders from these eu money. what happened to that? over and over, through governments, european union money has been pillaged, stolen mostly in the form of being shared among friends, pals, and a few oligarchs have become rich from this money. so it's hard to vote for the european union prosecutor's office, because it would be very good if there was an organization that could check these thefts, stop them, take action against them. at the same time, it would be a serious interference with our national sovereignty. that is why i have taken a neutral position and hope that the hungarian prosecutor's office will come to the point where it is not fulfilling political orders but enforcing the law.
in writing. ‒ the proposal supports the establishment of an efficient and independent european public prosecutor's office to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. the vat abuse is indicated as the reference base. the main problem with the proposal is that a european public prosecutor would be a prominent organisational tool in the process of integration, which seeks to gradually abolish national sovereignty, and could be misused later on against those who act and act against the interests of the eu, not just against the misuse of eu funds. in 2013, the hungarian parliament found the concept of the european public prosecutor's office to be in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and adopted a resolution to that effect. despite its purpose, i did not support the proposal because of the potential for abuse and the erosion of the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ eurojust plays an important role in improving judicial cooperation and coordination between the competent judicial authorities of the member states and in supporting investigations involving non-eu countries. i particularly support the part of the report which calls on the council to clarify the relationship between eurojust and the european public prosecutor's office (eppo), in particular the implications of the corporate structure, and the relationship between the eppo and olaf, in order to distinguish between the tasks assigned to them in the protection of the eu's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office, which the green group was involved in drafting and which reaffirms parliament's position ahead of the next meeting of the justice and home affairs council on the public prosecutor's office. the motion for a resolution confirms, inter alia, that the office of the prosecutor-general should have a view on all matters that may fall within its competence for any reason; that vat matters, like eu own resources, should fall within the competence of the office of the prosecutor-general.
in writing. ‒ a joint motion for a resolution was tabled on this issue by the ppe, s&d, alde and verts/ale groups. the draft proposes to strengthen parliament's commitment to the establishment of an efficient and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. it urges the council to speed up the preparation of the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust, which reaffirms parliament's support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office (eppo). the prosecution of crimes against the union budget is currently the exclusive competence of the member states. this fragmentation is highly damaging as it prevents the investigating and prosecuting authorities of the member states from ensuring the same level of protection and prosecution. i therefore support the motion calling on the council to step up its efforts to reach agreement on the draft directive on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the union by means of criminal law (pif) and to resume negotiations with parliament to establish the eppo. it is also appropriate that the eppo should have primary competence for the offences defined in the pif directive and should also have competence for cases where union funding exceeds eur 10 000, but does not amount to 50% or more of the co-financing. the eppo should be able to take effective action against any criminal offence affecting the union budget.
mr president it was a moving scene to see in this gallery the working people and their representatives who have lost their jobs, their livelihoods, because of bad, socially ill-considered decisions, factory closures. i ask my fellow members of parliament to enlarge this gallery in their minds. put there hundreds of thousands, millions of people, like hungarians, who lost their jobs at that time, and had to experience that tragic image and scene and sense of life, that they had to see the factories where they lived their lives, and where they made very high-quality products, from ikarus buses to canneries, being demolished and razed to the ground. why would you do that? because privatizations were carried out without thinking, in accordance with the expectations of the respected european union and the western world. they wanted to give everything to the west, or to comrades at home who were in the right place at the right time. you shouldn't have done that, and then maybe we shouldn't be talking about re-industrialisation.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution stresses the need for a flexible industrial policy that supports a globally competitive industry while meeting social and environmental requirements, complemented by an appropriate trade policy. in my view, there is nothing new in the proposal that would lead to a real industrial policy. this would require strong protection of the union's industry, including a catch-up programme for the less developed countries. eu workers should be protected from the speculative decisions of multinational companies and multinational companies should be replaced in most cases by nation-state companies, ensuring state participation in strategic industries. all this is missing from the text, and as long as the union is governed by neoliberal principles (the maastricht criteria, the treaty of lisbon), such a policy cannot be established. on these grounds, i have rejected the decision.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union needs to do more to create a more competitive european industry and protect the jobs of those working in the industry. as is known, in 2015 hungary was the leading country in the european union in terms of contribution to the total gross value added of the water and waste management industry, with a share of more than 27%. the european union average was 19% and hungary was fifth in the eu ranking, with an increase of 21,5% compared to 2010. at the same time, we must also keep an eye on the world market, because it is becoming increasingly clear that competition is intensifying and that all actors (employers, workers, government) must pay attention and play an active role in making sure that competitiveness and social security strengthen the european union simultaneously and in a mutually supportive way. whereas the hungarian government, in accordance with the action plans for the protection of labour initiated earlier, believes that the loss of workers' skills and knowledge must be prevented and that europe must maintain its industrial capacity in order to meet its needs without being dependent on third country producers; an independent domestic industry is not conceivable to compete with european industry, markets and multinational companies. since 2013, employers have benefited from more than huf 360 billion, saving almost 900 000 jobs per year. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to do more to create a more competitive european industry and protect the jobs of those working in the industry. as is known, in 2015 hungary was the leading country in the european union in terms of contribution to the total gross value added of the water and waste management industry, with a share of more than 27%. the european union average was 19% and hungary was fifth in the eu ranking, with an increase of 21,5% compared to 2010. at the same time, we must also keep an eye on the world market, because it is becoming increasingly clear that competition is intensifying and that all actors (employers, workers, government) must pay attention and play an active role in making sure that competitiveness and social security strengthen the european union simultaneously and in a mutually supportive way. whereas the hungarian government, in accordance with the action plans for the protection of labour initiated earlier, believes that the loss of workers' skills and knowledge must be prevented and that europe must maintain its industrial capacity in order to meet its needs without being dependent on third country producers; an independent domestic industry is not conceivable to compete with european industry, markets and multinational companies. since 2013, employers have benefited from more than huf 360 billion, saving almost 900 000 jobs per year.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to do more to create a more competitive european industry and protect the jobs of those working in the industry. as is known, in 2015 hungary was the leading country in the european union in terms of contribution to the total gross value added of the water and waste management industry, with a share of more than 27%. the european union average was 19% and hungary was fifth in the eu ranking, with an increase of 21,5% compared to 2010. at the same time, we must also keep an eye on the world market, because it is becoming increasingly clear that competition is intensifying and that all actors (employers, workers, government) must pay attention and play an active role in making sure that competitiveness and social security strengthen the european union simultaneously and in a mutually supportive way. whereas the hungarian government, in accordance with the action plans for the protection of labour initiated earlier, believes that the loss of workers' skills and knowledge must be prevented and that europe must maintain its industrial capacity in order to meet its needs without being dependent on third country producers; an independent domestic industry is not conceivable to compete with european industry, markets and multinational companies. since 2013, employers have benefited from more than huf 360 billion, saving almost 900 000 jobs per year.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to do more to create a more competitive european industry and protect the jobs of those working in the industry. as is known, in 2015 hungary was the leading country in the european union in terms of contribution to the total gross value added of the water and waste management industry, with a share of more than 27%. the european union average was 19% and hungary was fifth in the eu ranking, with an increase of 21,5% compared to 2010. at the same time, we must also keep an eye on the world market, because it is becoming increasingly clear that competition is intensifying and that all actors (employers, workers, government) must pay attention and play an active role in making sure that competitiveness and social security strengthen the european union simultaneously and in a mutually supportive way. whereas the hungarian government, in accordance with the action plans for the protection of labour initiated earlier, believes that the loss of workers' skills and knowledge must be prevented and that europe must maintain its industrial capacity in order to meet its needs without being dependent on third country producers; an independent domestic industry is not conceivable to compete with european industry, markets and multinational companies. since 2013, employers have benefited from more than huf 360 billion, saving almost 900 000 jobs per year.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to do more to create a more competitive european industry and protect the jobs of those working in the industry. as is known, in 2015 hungary was the leading country in the european union in terms of contribution to the total gross value added of the water and waste management industry, with a share of more than 27%. the european union average was 19% and hungary was fifth in the eu ranking, with an increase of 21,5% compared to 2010. at the same time, we must also keep an eye on the world market, because it is becoming increasingly clear that competition is intensifying and that all actors (employers, workers, government) must pay attention and play an active role in making sure that competitiveness and social security strengthen the european union simultaneously and in a mutually supportive way. whereas the hungarian government, in accordance with the action plans for the protection of labour initiated earlier, believes that the loss of workers' skills and knowledge must be prevented and that europe must maintain its industrial capacity in order to meet its needs without being dependent on third country producers; an independent domestic industry is not conceivable to compete with european industry, markets and multinational companies. since 2013, employers have benefited from more than huf 360 billion, saving almost 900 000 jobs per year.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to do more to create a more competitive european industry and protect the jobs of those working in the industry. as is known, in 2015 hungary was the leader among the countries of the european union in the contribution of the industry, including water and waste management, to the total gross value added with more than 27%. while the eu average was 19%, hungary was ranked fifth in the eu, with an increase of 21.5% compared to 2010. at the same time, we must ensure that competitiveness and social security strengthen the european union simultaneously and in mutual support. whereas the hungarian government, in accordance with the decision and the action plans for occupational safety and health initiated earlier, considers that the loss of workers' skills and knowledge must be prevented and that europe must maintain its industrial capacity so as not to be dependent on third country manufacturers; an independent domestic industry is not imaginable without a competitive european industry, market and multinational companies. since 2013, employers have benefited from more than huf 360 billion, saving almost 900 000 jobs per year.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to do more to create a more competitive european industry and protect the jobs of those working in the industry. as is known, in 2015, hungary was the leader among the countries of the european union in the contribution of the water and waste management industry to the total gross value added with a share of more than 27%. the european union average was 19% and hungary was fifth in the eu ranking, with an increase of 21,5% compared to 2010. at the same time, we must also keep an eye on the world market, because it is becoming increasingly clear that competition is intensifying and that all actors (employers, workers, government) must pay attention and play an active role in making sure that competitiveness and social security strengthen the european union simultaneously and in a mutually supportive way. whereas the hungarian government, in accordance with the action plans for the protection of labour initiated earlier, believes that the loss of workers' skills and knowledge must be prevented and that europe must maintain its industrial capacity in order to meet its needs without being dependent on third country producers; an independent domestic industry is not conceivable to compete with european industry, markets and multinational companies. since 2013, employers have benefited from more than huf 360 billion, saving almost 900 000 jobs per year.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to do more to create a more competitive european industry and protect the jobs of those working in the industry. as is known, in 2015 hungary was the leading country in the european union in terms of contribution to the total gross value added of the water and waste management industry, with a share of more than 27%. the european union average was 19% and hungary was fifth in the eu ranking, with an increase of 21,5% compared to 2010. at the same time, we must also keep an eye on the world market, because it is becoming increasingly clear that competition is intensifying and that all actors (employers, workers, government) must pay attention and play an active role in making sure that competitiveness and social security strengthen the european union simultaneously and in a mutually supportive way. whereas the hungarian government, in accordance with the action plans for the protection of labour initiated earlier, believes that the loss of workers' skills and knowledge must be prevented and that europe must maintain its industrial capacity in order to meet its needs without being dependent on third country producers; an independent domestic industry is not conceivable to compete with european industry, markets and multinational companies. since 2013, employers have benefited from more than huf 360 billion, saving almost 900 000 jobs per year.
in writing. facts are stubborn things and often lead to uncomfortable conclusions. as long as the union is governed by neoliberal principles, as the maastricht criteria and the treaty of lisbon clearly show, there is no chance of a real industrial policy. this would require strong protection of the union industry, including a catch-up programme for the less developed countries. furthermore, multinational companies should be replaced by national and state-owned companies. all of this is completely missing from the material, so it's unsupportable. just the tip of the iceberg are the two major cuts just announced, the aftermath of decades of seemingly flawed economic regulation. china and the far east can thank the european bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution on the subject was tabled by the ppe, verts/ale, gue/ngl, ecr, s&d, efdd and alde groups. the groups, with the exception of gue/ngl and the efdd, reached an agreement and drew up a compromise proposal. i voted for the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to do more to create a more competitive european industry and protect the jobs of those working in the industry. as is known, in 2015, hungary was the leader among the countries of the european union in the contribution of the water and waste management industry to the total gross value added with a share of more than 27%. the european union average was 19% and hungary was fifth in the eu ranking, with an increase of 21,5% compared to 2010. at the same time, we must also keep an eye on the world market, because it is becoming increasingly clear that competition is intensifying and that all actors (employers, workers, government) must pay attention and play an active role in making sure that competitiveness and social security strengthen the european union simultaneously and in a mutually supportive way. the hungarian government also states in the action plans for labour protection already launched, in line with the decision, that the loss of workers' skills and knowledge must be prevented and that europe must maintain its industrial capacity in order to meet its needs without being dependent on third country producers. an independent domestic industry is not conceivable to compete with european industry, markets and multinational companies. since 2013, employers have benefited from more than huf 360 billion, saving almost 900 000 jobs per year.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution deals with the need for a european reindustrialisation policy, which i voted in favour of. i agree that european industry has played a fundamental role in the history of european integration and that it is still one of the pillars of the creation of new values and channels in europe. i think the challenges of our time have changed radically. i agree that an ambitious innovation policy that favours the production of high quality, innovative, energy-efficient products and supports new production processes will enable the eu to stand its ground in increasingly global competition. the motion also mentions several companies that have made mass layoffs in recent years, most recently caterpillar holding, which announced a global restructuring plan. as a result, 2500 workers lost their jobs and some 4000 subcontractors' jobs were threatened. we can see this as a systemic problem, so we're taking action. i share the view that european industry should be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness. the proposal calls on the council to adopt swiftly the modernisation of trade defence mechanisms to finally respond adequately to unfair practices by third countries and to protect the eu industry from dumping on the european market, thus ensuring fair competition for all. i support the provision of protection for workers through consultation with the social partners in the context of the implementation of the eu industrial strategy.
madam president, please. the european union's role is to provide immediate humanitarian assistance and to make a decisive contribution to the political solution. as deputy high representative korčok said, there is no black or white actor here. therefore, it is necessary to mediate between regional actors turkey, iran and saudi arabia and between global actors usa and russia . but that's not the solution, as the people's party spokesman said: it's the eu's job to work with the us to take action against russia. well, the european union has articulated how it wants to be a key player in global affairs. this cannot be solved by assigning the european union a single task of acting as a back-up for the united states.
in writing. the european union, like the entire international community, has a duty to save syria, serving both the syrian people and the region as a whole. the negotiations initiated by the syrian parties offer a good opportunity to move towards a solution. however, this option will not always be open and it is vital that all parties engage constructively in a dialogue that leads to tangible results. the eu and its member states will continue to provide life-saving assistance, while pressing all parties to ensure that humanitarian assistance reaches those in need throughout syria, to implement a ceasefire and to ensure the protection of civilians. and humanitarian and diplomatic efforts must be coordinated, as they can strengthen or weaken each other. hungary will be committed to achieving significant results in both areas. we believe that a stronger, more coordinated, more effective and more proportionate international development policy can contribute to the reconstruction of war-torn countries and to the liveability of countries that are the source of mass economic migration. the formula is simple: history has repeatedly shown that there is only one effective strategy in such situations: help for those in need, not trouble for europe!
madam president, i think that we can agree that to restore credibility and trust in the european institutions, what we need is more transparency and more accountability to citizens. citizens should have the right to have an overview of the full decision-making process and i agree that it is a good approach that, if we require transparency from other institutions, we should start with ourselves. on the other hand, there are the other institutions: the council is at least on equal footing with parliament or the commission in decision-making and i think there is no reason not to require the same rules for the council to have a mandatory register as for the commission and the parliament. so given those circumstances, i believe that a voluntary register is not enough for the council. also, we have to take into consideration the possibility to widen to scope to the agencies, as well, and ceterum censeo the giegold report should be supported.
madam president, i apologise for the slight confusion. let me begin by saying outright that, of course it goes without saying, that the epp supports transparency. but transparency is actually a much more complex issue than it appears at first sight. i think at the heart of it is the problem of the relationship with transparency and trust. it is not clear cut; it is not automatic; it is not a direct, either causal or correlative, relationship. indeed, the complexity is such that there is a lot of argument to suggest that the greater the transparency, the lower the trust, because why should people trust if they already have everything written down? indeed, there are many people – i do not know if it is a majority or a minority – who say, if this much can be made transparent there must be something else that is hidden. it is, therefore, an ongoing, probably an infinitely repeatable process which can never be reached. and therefore i would say that if we are talking about transparency there has to be a finite quality to it, which i do not actually see at this particular time. so, the culture of trust is something that has to be more important, should supersede in some ways transparency itself, in order to generate the necessary trust in the institutions. now i would go on to say that actually, from what i see, the central difficulty is the remoteness of all the institutions of the european union from the citizens. here, and the vice-president we will know what i am about to say, what is happening to the european citizens’ initiative, which is a way of building trust, separately from transparency? i would also add here the problem of security. too much openness makes people vulnerable to the various security services, who are very busy indeed in brussels, in strasbourg and who knows where else. lobbying register, yes, i think that is absolutely right. it is not a silver bullet. i think there is no silver bullet, but at the centre of the problem is legitimacy. how can the european union generate and build on its existing legitimacy, which is a little bit thin in certain parts of the world?
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you mentioned several times in your speech that judicial solutions should be given some sort of priority. let me ask you, how satisfied are you with the current practice of the courts, when a case can drag on for four or five years?
mr president when it comes to voting on a report related to international financial reporting standards, voters who know me may rightly ask, on what basis am i even going to vote on this issue, since i'm not an economist, i'm not a financial expert. but every day, as a lawyer and as a representative, i meet people who suffer from the effects of banking speculation. so the financial economist who helps me with the voter rolls, i ask him to give me some professional advice that will ultimately reduce the possibility of speculation. so, we have a systemic problem here, international financial speculation. as long as the neoliberal financial economic system that is currently in place in the world is in place, it will not be abolished, but because we thought, together with my experts, that these standards could reduce speculation, i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis that began in 2008 has put the role of international financial reporting standards in financial stability and growth, in particular the accounting of losses realised in the banking system, on the agenda of the g20 and the eu. the commission notes that the bank's financial statements were not updated in the course of the financial crisis, as accounting standards before the crisis did not function properly, for example resulting in procyclicality in the accounting of profit and loss, i.e. underestimating the accumulation of risks during the recovery phase of the cycle, and there was no common and transparent methodology for the valuation of illiquid and impaired assets. the resolution calls for the international financial reporting standards to be put on a new footing. in my view, this regulation does not eliminate the possibility of financial crises, because it is fundamentally linked to the liberalisation of the financial sector and the subsequent concentration, but it can to some extent curb speculation, and therefore i supported the adoption of the regulation despite my reservations.
in writing. ‒ the european commission intends to adopt a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1126/2008 adopting certain international accounting standards with regard to ifrs 9. on 26 september 2016, mr roberto gualtieri, member of the european parliament, submitted a question to the commission for an oral answer on behalf of the economic and monetary committee on the possible negative impact of ifrs 9 on long-term investments and financial stability. the draft opinion of the economic and monetary committee points out that, partly due to the lack of reliable data, there is a lack of impact assessments on ifrs 9 and therefore calls for a better understanding of the impact of ifrs 9 on the banking sector, the insurance sector and financial markets in general, and the financial sector as a whole. it is also concerned that the accounting treatment of certain financial instruments held directly or indirectly as long-term investments under ifrs 9 may be contrary to the objective of promoting long-term investments. it therefore considers that further studies, analyses and ex post evaluations are necessary. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on international financial reporting standards. the new ifrs 9 standards aim to improve the financial reporting of financial assets by addressing problems that have emerged during the crisis. the draft motion rightly points out that the commitment to better regulation certainly requires an impact assessment. i also agree with the finding that there is a need to further examine the practical impact of ifrs 9 on the banking and insurance sector and the financial sector in general. overall, the new standards, as the draft proposal highlights, should serve the eu's long-term objectives.
mr president i voted for the report on the unspeakably dramatic situation in syria, but let me share something here with those who are interested. there would have been a very good amendment, and it is a mystery to me why the majority of this honourable parliament rejected this amendment. it would have been interesting to know that the european parliament condemns the arms shipments and any other form of support for isis, al-nusra and other syrian jihadist groups. it notes that weapons and other equipment provided to so-called rebel groups often end up in the hands of isis and al-nusra. why has the majority of the european parliament not voted for this? everyone thinks for themselves and draws their own conclusions.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union, as well as the entire international community, has a duty to save syria, serving both the syrian people and the region as a whole. the negotiations initiated by the syrian parties offer a good opportunity to move towards a solution. however, this option will not always be open and it is vital that all parties engage constructively in a dialogue that leads to tangible results. the eu and its member states will continue to provide life-saving assistance, while pressing all parties to ensure that humanitarian assistance reaches those in need throughout syria, to implement a ceasefire and to ensure the protection of civilians. and humanitarian and diplomatic efforts must be coordinated, as they can strengthen or weaken each other. i believe that a stronger, more coordinated, more effective and more proportionate international development policy can help to rebuild war-torn countries and make the countries that are the source of the mass of economic migrants more livable. the formula is simple: history has repeatedly shown that there is only one effective strategy in such situations: help for those in need, not trouble for europe! in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ppe, s&d, ecr, alde, verts/ale and efdd groups tabled a joint motion, while the gue/ngl group tabled an independent motion. i voted in favour of the joint motion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the european people are increasingly annoyed and frustrated by the many visible links between european decision-makers and various economic lobby groups. well, this is just something that came to my mind, nothing to do with the fact that in the large-scale report on climate change, the honourable member has again failed to vote on an amendment which i think is very important, and which would have been about fighting climate change on one side, and on the other side there are these transnational corporations, companies that are known to be carrying out activities that cause enormous damage to the environment and therefore to the climate. there would have been an amendment that would have started the negotiations on this case, to systematically hold these companies accountable, and to end the impunity of these companies. miraculously, not even the greens voted for this amendment, let alone the largest faction, the people's party.
in writing. ‒ i believe that climate change can increase competition for resources such as food, water and pasture, and exacerbate economic difficulties and political instability. this is particularly true for developing countries, which in the not too distant future may become one of the main drivers of displacement of populations within national and cross-border borders, the worrying signs of which europe has already felt in recent years. in this context, i believe it is important to place climate-related migration at the top of the international agenda. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union adopted the resolution for the next un climate conference. this will be a follow-up to last year’s paris agreement. i welcome the decision of the european parliament on the ratification of the paris agreement. we greens call on the eu to commit to further emissions reductions for 2030. now we will need action and implementation, but it is a good sign that the european union will be able to stand firmly in marrakesh and will stay a key player in fighting climate change.
in writing. ‒ the fight against global warming was previously aimed at limiting the global average temperature to 2°c above pre-industrial levels. however, all parties to the kyoto protocol have committed to limiting this to much lower levels and to making further efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°c. another objective is to balance anthropogenic emissions from different sources and removals of greenhouse gases by sinks in the second half of the century. the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety looks at the global efforts to achieve these objectives and the possibilities for the european union to contribute to them to the greatest extent possible. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution aims to summarise the european parliament's positions for the marrakesh climate conference in november. it raises specific topics such as urging the ratification of the paris agreement, the pre-2020 ambitions and kyoto protocol, the cop22 negotiating priorities, the role of non-state actors, a comprehensive effort across all sectors, non-co2 emission reductions, climate finance, climate resilience and adaptation, and climate diplomacy. i share the view that there is scientific evidence that warming and change in the climate system is occurring, and that the main cause of this is accelerated human activity since the middle of the 20th century. with this proposal, i urge all countries to accelerate the transition to near-zero greenhouse gas emissions and climate resilience as agreed in the paris agreement, in order to avoid the worst impacts of global warming. the agreement therefore encourages a shift of investments away from fossil fuel-related investments towards low-carbon and safe investments. the european union must also play a leading role in the conciliation process, which is why i voted in favour of the motion. i am pleased that the relevant eu institutions have also ratified the paris agreement, so that the climate summit in morocco can rightly be called a 'party to the agreement'.
mr president the bucket is a bucket, a conspiracy theory, a conspiracy theory. but as more conspiracy theories are revealed to be true, it was a shame to laugh so much at those who spread them. it's also the fact that our food, the food we eat, the food we're forced to eat, the food we eat on a daily basis, is potentially life-threatening. as this report, the schaldemose report, shows, the contaminants in the food we eat can cause cancer, can cause fertility problems, can cause chronic diseases, because of hormones that go into the food, because of packaging that contaminates the food for too long. well, of course, for too long when food comes from the other side of the world. i find it very tragic that on the one hand the european parliament is constantly negotiating these free trade agreements, and on the other hand it is trying to reduce the damage and disaster caused by them. the foundations should be shut down.
in writing. ‒ wrapping paper, kitchen and eating utensils used in everyday life are regularly in contact with food. when they come into contact, their components are transferred to food. these chemicals can be harmful to human health and can alter the composition of food. the european union has established a general safety regime and has introduced specific safety rules in four areas: plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. member states are given the possibility to introduce similar special rules in several areas. however, this leads to different product safety rules, which may create barriers to the internal market. the european union aims to harmonise regulations and to develop further specific eu regulations. it is also important to address the shortcomings in the implementation of the legislation in force. the european union aims to preserve and protect the health of consumers and to ensure the efficient functioning of the internal market. to this end, the european parliament calls for a review of the existing framework regulation. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ food contact materials are widely used in everyday life for food packaging, as well as in the form of kitchen utensils, cutlery, etc. these substances are subject to legally binding rules at union level, laid down in framework regulation (ec) no 1935/2004. it lays down general safety requirements applicable to all substances and articles which may come into contact with food, but also provides for the possibility of adopting specific measures for 17 substances listed in annex i to the framework regulation. however, only four of these materials have been subject to specific measures at union level so far: plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. for other materials that come into contact with food (e.g. paper and paperboard, metals and alloys, glass, coatings, silicones, rubbers and printing inks), member states may adopt specific measures at national level. the absence of specific union measures for most of the substances listed in annex i has led to restrictions on the internal market and to a loss of competitiveness and innovation. the draft resolution of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety cautiously urges further harmonisation at eu level of the 13 non-harmonised substances, giving priority to those that pose particular risks to human health or are in greater demand on the eu market. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ food contact materials include not only food packaging but also kitchen utensils, cutlery, etc. in contact with food depending on their composition and properties these substances may transfer their constituents to food and the constituents may harm human health or alter the composition of food. this process is known and therefore food contact materials are already regulated at eu level by a framework regulation (1935/2004/ec). it sets general safety requirements for 17 substances and there is a specific eu action for four others (plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials). for other food contact materials, member states are currently able to adopt specific measures at national level, so there are still many gaps and gaps in standards that hinder innovation. i therefore agree that the current legislation needs to be amended, not only by broadening the material scale, but also in details such as risk assessment, traceability, compliance and control. i also agree with the report that joint action is needed for substances that do not pose a health risk in order to improve controllability. i believe that the provision of healthy food is in our common interest and i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
mr president i would like to briefly describe the tenth section of the report on monitoring the application of eu law, which may be of particular concern to hungarians. he says that member states should avoid making eu rules unnecessarily burdensome when applying eu law, as this leads to misunderstanding of the eu's legislative activity and increases unjustified eu scepticism among citizens. we hungarians want to be very careful not to create unjustified eu-skepticism, so we interpret all the european union norms that want to extend the competence of brussels and the union to determine who we have to live with on our own land, how many migrants we have to accept, or how many, what mass of migrants the union wants to settle in our country. so we're trying to meet the expectations perfectly.
in writing. ‒ the proposal assesses the commission's 2014 report on the application of eu law. the report concludes that member states are unable to meet the unrealistic implementation deadlines for legislation, leading to tacit acceptance of delayed application; calls on the european institutions to agree on a more appropriate timetable for implementing regulations and directives. the proposal calls for the commission to be more active in combating the misapplication of directives. the proposal to force integration is permeated by concerns about the weakening of the effectiveness of eu law, which the rapporteur believes is 'systemically undermined by the fact that it is not applied properly by the member states and by the inadequate monitoring by the commission'. the main message of the report is that the enforcement of eu law in the member states needs to be made even more effective, and that it is therefore strongly pro-integration and therefore not acceptable from a eurorealist point of view. the previous report included at least some system-critical elements, which are essentially missing here. in view of these considerations, i did not support the motion.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution summarises in a professional and comprehensive way the current state of play, the results and the problems of the application of eu law, and i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the greek representative who wrote the previous report had a much better sense of democracy and was therefore more critical of the system itself, for understandable reasons. the report is not acceptable on the basis of european realism, because it blindly relies on the commission. his financial-economic approach is also based on the repeatedly failed neoliberalism. the fact that parliament still has very little access to information on the eu pilot procedure and on pending cases severely limits the possibilities for meps. it is therefore very difficult to assess whether the decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures is due to compromise solutions between the commission and the member states or rather to the fact that member states are better complying with eu law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report because it gives an accurate picture and makes remarkable findings and recommendations on the experience of implementing eu law two years ago. it points to the key role of the commission in the control but also recalls that the ultimate responsibility for implementing eu law lies with the member states. the report welcomed some improvements in this respect in 2014, mainly reflecting a decrease in the number of infringement procedures. i also agree with the specific proposal that in future the commission should examine more closely the compliance of associated and candidate countries with eu law on the same basis as the member states. as the hungarian representative, i also considered this report to be particularly appropriate for drawing appropriate lessons for the future in the light of the fact that recently the government of the eu member state hungary, in relation to an important eu policy or community decision (regulation of migration), has made a direct, provocative challenge to the eu legal order, principles and practice: in a referendum campaign, it called on its population to reject the primacy of community law, to reclaim the competence of national decision-making. on this basis, i will be increasingly of the opinion that european law needs to be protected urgently, and that the commission should choke off the seeds of such a legal policy before it can unleash its disruptive effect on eu law.
in writing. ‒ the objections are based on the fact that the commission has submitted a draft implementing act for the five gm maize and cotton plants in question which does not impose any restrictions on the marketing and use of these gm plants. the parliament and the envi committee consider that the commission has exceeded its powers by these acts and would allow the import and marketing of these products in the european union without respect for the precautionary principle. unfortunately, the efsa studies do not contain sufficient data and information to show that these plants are harmless to human health. i supported the adoption of the motions to withdraw the european commission's authorisation implementation plans.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i oppose the authorisation of gmo products and consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, is to serve as a basis for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. the report calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision, and i therefore voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. bt11 maize produces cry1ab toxin, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin of mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the bt11 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the bt11 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. bt11 maize produces cry1ab toxin, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin of mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the bt11 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ bt11 maize produces cry1ab toxin, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin of mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the bt11 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ bt11 maize produces cry1ab toxin, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin of mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the bt11 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ bt11 maize produces cry1ab toxin, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin of mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the bt11 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. the most basic human right is the right to health and to healthy food. the resolution rightly points out that the commission disregards eu law when it intends to place various gm seeds on the market. and in accordance with the precautionary principle, that cannot happen. most member states prohibit the spread of gmos by their national laws or by their basic laws. the commission's attitude is worrying, at a time when large masses are rightly protesting against the conclusion of ceta and ttip.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 (syn-btø11-1) for cultivation. a marketing notification for bt11 maize was submitted by syngenta seeds sas (formerly novartis seeds) to the competent french authorities in 1996 and again in 2003. this corn contains the cry1ab protein and the pat protein, which provides resistance to glufosinate-ammonium herbicides. this herbicide, on the other hand, is considered to be a reproductive toxicant and should be phased out by the end of 2017. according to the european food safety authority (efsa), vertical wind movements or gusts of wind experienced during pollination can transport pollen up to several kilometres. the commission draft implementing decision requires a minimum isolation distance of 5 metres between bt11 maize fields and protected habitats, despite the fact that efsa clearly states that a 20 metre isolation distance around a protected habitat would be recommended. efsa also stated that the risk assessment of the cultivation is incomplete. i therefore agree that the draft commission implementing decision is beyond its powers and that the efsa recommendations are therefore not appropriate.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i oppose the authorisation of gmo products and consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, is to serve as a basis for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. the report calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision, and i therefore voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. corn 1507 produces the cry1f protein, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the 1507 genetic construction pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing 1507 genetic designs pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. corn 1507 produces the cry1f protein, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house cultivated lines and hybrids from maize line containing the 1507 genetic structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ corn 1507 produces the cry1f protein, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the 1507 genetic construction pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ corn 1507 produces the cry1f protein, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the 1507 genetic construction pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ corn 1507 produces the cry1f protein, which is a bt protein similar to the toxin mon 810. this gives it the ability to defend itself against different species of lepidoptera. it also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that in-house lines and hybrids from maize line containing the 1507 genetic construction pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft commission implementing decision on the placing on the market of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 (das-ø15ø7-1) for cultivation. the resolution describes how in 2001 pioneer overseas corporation and dow agrosciences europe notified the competent spanish authorities of the placing on the market of 1507 genetically modified maize. this maize contains the cry1f protein from bacillus for the control of pests and produces the pat protein which provides tolerance to glufosinate-ammonium herbicides. since glufosinate is considered a substance harmful to reproduction, the exclusion criteria for substances already authorised should apply when the authorisation is to be renewed. in addition, the efsa scientific panel on gmos identified as a concern for the cultivation of maize 1507 the possible development of resistance to cry1f in the targeted insects of the order of butterflies, as the development of resistance could lead to a change in the defence against the insects, which could have a detrimental environmental impact. the commission has defined in its draft implementing decision a lower isolation distance than that which efsa has identified as clearly proven. for these reasons, i agree that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the defined implementing powers and that the risk assessment of the cultivation by efsa is deficient.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i oppose the authorisation of gmo products and consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, is to serve as a basis for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. the report calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision, and i therefore voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. domestic scientific evidence has shown that the persistent presence of mon810 maize in the ecosystem under investigation may have adverse effects. it produces 1500 to 2000 times more bt-toxin than is released from the bt-toxin containing plant protection product dipel in a single treatment under conventional plant protection. furthermore, the remains of the bt plants decayed more slowly than the non-toxin producing lines. after harvesting, 8% of the toxin produced by the plant remained in the area, and a significant amount of this active toxin was detected in the soil 11 months later. in our view, the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that domestic lines and hybrids from maize line containing the mon 810 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ domestic scientific results have demonstrated that the persistent presence of mon810 maize in the ecosystem under investigation may have adverse effects. it produces 1500 to 2000 times more bt-toxin than is released from the bt-toxin containing plant protection product dipel in a single treatment under conventional plant protection. furthermore, the remains of the bt plants decayed more slowly than the non-toxin producing lines. after harvesting, 8% of the toxin produced by the plant remained in the area, and a significant amount of this active toxin was detected in the soil 11 months later. in our view, the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that domestic lines and hybrids from maize line containing the mon 810 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. domestic scientific evidence has shown that the persistent presence of mon810 maize in the ecosystem under investigation may have adverse effects. it produces 1500 to 2000 times more bt-toxin than is released from the bt-toxin containing plant protection product dipel in a single treatment under conventional plant protection. furthermore, the remains of the bt plants decayed more slowly than the non-toxin producing lines. after harvesting, 8% of the toxin produced by the plant remained in the area, and a significant amount of this active toxin was detected in the soil 11 months later. in our view, the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that domestic lines and hybrids from maize line containing the mon 810 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ domestic scientific results have demonstrated that the persistent presence of mon810 maize in the ecosystem under investigation may have adverse effects. it produces 1500 to 2000 times more bt-toxin than is released from the bt-toxin containing plant protection product dipel in a single treatment under conventional plant protection. furthermore, the remains of the bt plants decayed more slowly than the non-toxin producing lines. after harvesting, 8% of the toxin produced by the plant remained in the area, and a significant amount of this active toxin was detected in the soil 11 months later. in our view, the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that domestic lines and hybrids from maize line containing the mon 810 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ domestic scientific results have demonstrated that the persistent presence of mon810 maize in the ecosystem under investigation may have adverse effects. it produces 1500 to 2000 times more bt-toxin than is released from the bt-toxin containing plant protection product dipel in a single treatment under conventional plant protection. furthermore, the remains of the bt plants decayed more slowly than the non-toxin producing lines. after harvesting, 8% of the toxin produced by the plant remained in the area, and a significant amount of this active toxin was detected in the soil 11 months later. in our view, the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that domestic lines and hybrids from maize line containing the mon 810 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the mon810 maize line carries the cry1a gene, which is transcribed by the bt-toxin insecticide protein , and which enables mon810 maize to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term studies would also be necessary to investigate possible toxicological and allergenic effects of mon810. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft commission implementing decision on the renewal of the authorisation for the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6) in the european parliament. the proposal describes that on 11 and 18 april 2007 monsanto europe s.a. submitted three applications to the commission for the renewal of the marketing authorisations for foods, food ingredients and feed currently produced from mon 810 maize. on 9 march 2016, monsanto europe s.a. sent a letter to the commission requesting that the part of the application concerning cultivation be treated separately from the rest of the application. this genetically modified maize contains the cry1ab protein from the sub-species bacillus thuringiensis kurstaki, which confers resistance to certain pests of the order of butterflies. according to the european food safety authority (efsa), evidence shows that between 95 and 99% of pollen emissions are deposited up to 50 metres from the pollen source, but that vertical winds or wind gusts can release dispersing pollen into the atmosphere and travel significant distances, up to several kilometres. i agree that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and that the efsa assessment of the cultivation is incomplete. the resolution therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its implementing regulation.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i oppose the authorisation of gmo products and consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, is to serve as a basis for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. the report calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision, and i therefore voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. the mon810 maize line carries the cry1a gene, which is transcribed by the bt-toxin insecticide protein , and which enables mon810 maize to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term studies would also be necessary to investigate possible toxicological and allergenic effects of mon810. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the mon810 maize line carries the cry1a gene, which is transcribed by the bt-toxin insecticide protein , and which enables mon810 maize to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term studies would also be necessary to investigate possible toxicological and allergenic effects of mon810. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. the mon810 maize line carries the cry1a gene, which is transcribed by the bt-toxin insecticide protein , and which enables mon810 maize to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term studies would also be necessary to investigate possible toxicological and allergenic effects of mon810. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the mon810 maize line carries the cry1a gene, which is transcribed by the bt-toxin insecticide protein , and which enables mon810 maize to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term studies would also be necessary to investigate possible toxicological and allergenic effects of mon810. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the mon810 maize line carries the cry1a gene, which is transcribed by the bt-toxin insecticide protein , and which enables mon810 maize to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term studies would also be necessary to investigate possible toxicological and allergenic effects of mon810. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ domestic scientific results have demonstrated that the persistent presence of mon810 maize in the ecosystem under investigation may have adverse effects. it produces 1500 to 2000 times more bt-toxin than is released from the bt-toxin containing plant protection product dipel in a single treatment under conventional plant protection. furthermore, the remains of the bt plants decayed more slowly than the non-toxin producing lines. after harvesting, 8% of the toxin produced by the plant remained in the area, and a significant amount of this active toxin was detected in the soil 11 months later. in our view, the available scientific knowledge provides sufficient grounds to assume that domestic lines and hybrids from maize line containing the mon 810 gene structure pose a risk to the environment. in view of all this, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6). the proposal describes that on 11 and 18 april 2007 monsanto europe s.a. submitted three applications to the commission for the renewal of the marketing authorisations for foods, food ingredients and feed currently produced from mon 810 maize. this maize contains a cry1ab protein derived from the bacillus, which provides resistance to certain pests of the order of butterflies. member states expressed concerns that there are no long-term feeding and toxicity studies and that the risk assessment is not adequate. it has become a general decision-making practice, also exceptional, for genetically modified (gm) food and feed to send the dossier back to the commission for final approval. the fundamental problem is that while production necessarily takes place in the territory of a member state, trade in gmos is cross-border, which means that the ban on national sales and use proposed by the commission could not be enforced without the reintroduction of import border controls. i therefore agree that the draft commission implementing decision does not comply with union law, does not provide a basis for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i oppose the authorisation of gmo products and consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, is to serve as a basis for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. the report calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision, and i therefore voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. cotton 281-24-236x3006-210-23xmon88913 produces two proteins: the pat protein, which makes it resistant to glyphosate-ammonium-type pesticides, and the modified cp4 epsps protein, which makes it glyphosate-tolerant. it also produces the proteins cry1f and cry1ac, which enable it to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not pose a risk to human or animal health. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ the safety studies on genetically modified cotton were not satisfactory. longer-term feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not pose a risk to human or animal health. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. cotton 281-24-236x3006-210-23xmon88913 produces two proteins: the pat protein, which makes it resistant to glyphosate-ammonium-type pesticides, and the modified cp4 epsps protein, which makes it glyphosate-tolerant. it also produces the proteins cry1f and cry1ac, which enable it to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not pose a risk to human or animal health. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ cotton 281-24-236x3006-210-23xmon88913 produces two proteins: the pat protein, which makes it resistant to glyphosate-ammonium-type pesticides, and the modified cp4 epsps protein, which makes it glyphosate-tolerant. it also produces the proteins cry1f and cry1ac, which enable it to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not pose a risk to human or animal health. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ cotton 281-24-236x3006-210-23xmon88913 produces two proteins: the pat protein, which makes it resistant to glyphosate-ammonium-type pesticides, and the modified cp4 epsps protein, which makes it glyphosate-tolerant. it also produces the proteins cry1f and cry1ac, which enable it to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not pose a risk to human or animal health. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ cotton 281-24-236x3006-210-23xmon88913 produces two proteins: the pat protein, which makes it resistant to glyphosate-ammonium-type pesticides, and the modified cp4 epsps protein, which makes it glyphosate-tolerant. it also produces the proteins cry1f and cry1ac, which enable it to defend against certain lepidoptera species. there were no satisfactory studies on the safety of the product. longer-term feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not pose a risk to human or animal health. in my view, gm products should not be authorised in the european union unless they have been subject to adequate health and environmental safety checks. scientific studies to identify risks are inadequate, therefore, in accordance with the hungarian basic law and the precautionary principle, i do not support the authorisation of gm products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 (das-24236-5×das-21ø23-5×mon-88913-8). on 12 march 2009, dow agrosciences europe submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from the abovementioned cotton. this cotton contains the protein phosphinotricin acetyltransferase (pat) which provides resistance to glufosinate-ammonium-containing herbicides. it also contains the proteins cry1f and cry1ac, which provide protection against some pests. glyphosate was classified as a substance likely to cause cancer in humans in 2015 and, since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, authorisation decisions have been adopted by the commission in accordance with the applicable legislation without the opinions of the member state committees. the legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 was rejected by parliament in 2015 on the grounds that while production necessarily takes place in the territory of a member state, trade in gmos is cross-border, meaning that the ban on national 'sale and use' proposed by the commission could not be enforced without reintroducing import border controls. i agree that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (eu) no 1829/2003, and therefore i voted in favour of the proposal.
madam president! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very good approach to the subject and on his very good proposal, which could be a very good starting point for our future cooperation together, that is to say, cooperation between the member states. everyone is talking about this and i absolutely agree, and my starting point is that it is essential to protect the internal market that we act whenever our customs rules, our common rules, are violated. that is what the common defence of our financial interests requires, and that is what cooperation requires. at the same time, there is a very varied, i would say very colourful, picture of the procedural practices of the member states, which is not right. i believe that this range, this is so wide and it gives the opportunity for fraud, that it should be narrowed down by all means. i can absolutely support the harmonized system, the creation of one that is able to reduce bureaucracy, able to fit much better into this system, and able to distinguish between someone who has violated the law by accident or someone who has done so deliberately and in a systematic way. it would also be interesting to know whether this will lead to a uniform penalty rate in the member states. i congratulate the rapporteur and, of course, i will support the report.
madam president, the nuclear agreement with iran was concluded in july 2015. unfortunately, the lifting of sanctions has been slow and partial. the united states was the main obstacle to bank lending cooperation. quoting from the report: 'a realistic assessment of common interests and differences is needed.' yes, the difference must be realistically measured, that it is a country with a different culture, different values. most of the criticism of iran is due to the executions for drug crimes. but consider the vulnerability of the country: 86% of opium seizures are in iran. a proposal for amendment states that economic cooperation should be conditional on the abolition of the death penalty. if this parliament votes for this, then it must be consistent and immediately cancel the ttip negotiations with the united states, because most of the states in the united states already have the death penalty.
mr president the rapporteur rightly draws attention to the importance of preventing organised crime and corruption from entering the legal order of individual states and, of course, their economies. however, it should be noted that the current european legal and instrumental framework is not able to deal with the phenomenon of corruption being systematised by a particular political regime or government for its own power and the personal enrichment of its leaders, surrounded by self-interested legislation, as if legitimising the quasi-state corruption network. today, the hungarian economy is suffering most obviously from this, to which the eu legal order does not find a meaningful answer. for example, olaf is unable to investigate and uncover a corruption case involving european funds if it has to be referred for further action to the national authority or prosecutor whose head, possibly because of his relationship with the victim, is the personal beneficiary of the crime. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is an important and urgent task which can provide a partial answer to such legal challenges, but only joint action by member states against such governments can be effective, assuming the full unity and political determination of the european council.
the rapporteur. mr president, honourable members of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to present to you, in the interest of reporting, a report on liquefied natural gas and natural gas storage. i am proud to say that together with the shadow rapporteurs we have succeeded in creating a comprehensive framework that will be able to promote the development of european gas markets in the long term and support security of supply. this strategy is not a stand-alone strategy but an integral part of the system established by previous decisions of the parliament. it is consistent with the objectives of the energy union package and takes into account the other reports of the gas winter package. i believe that only within this framework can such work be undertaken, and we have acted accordingly. when we prepared the report, we had the following objectives in mind: to stimulate competition in the market to reduce consumer prices, to promote security of supply by increasing diversification, and last but not least, to always keep sustainability in mind. the report covers many important topics, but let me highlight those which i believe are the most important of these: first of all, of course, the situation of the vulnerable member states must be settled. it is essential to show solidarity with those member states which have no alternative and can only source natural gas from one source. adequate storage capacity can help these countries for a while, but the only long-term solution is diversification of resources, of which lng is a great tool. the second major issue is infrastructure. in order to improve the use of existing tools, we must first connect the isolated networks. the european commission's list of priority projects includes investments that could create these links and address the most problematic bottlenecks. in summary, in order to make the most of the investments we have, we must first make the ones we have not. and third, we have to highlight that the physical infrastructure, the hardware itself is not enough without the software. and software, in this case, is tariffs, standards, procedures. their coordination is as important as physical connection. in addition to these topics, we also discussed the role of lng in transport and decarbonisation, and the potential of the european union as an active player in the international natural gas market. in conclusion, i would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who contributed to this report, in particular the shadow rapporteurs. i believe that without the cooperation of the factions, we could not have achieved so much. my fellow members of parliament! i believe that this report deserves our support, because it draws on the initiatives of all the political groups and incorporates the ideas of each of them, so that we can say that it is a real compromise and another decisive step towards the common goal of the energy union. thank you very much for your attention.
mr president although i agree more or less with the objectives indicated by the rapporteur, i personally see very little in the logic of sustainability or energy efficiency, and in particular lack the determination that the future should be based on a zero-carbon and, if possible, nuclear-free energy use. but there are also a number of unresolved questions: who pays the various costs? for example, i do not agree with the recommendation in the report that the union should provide the necessary infrastructure. to give you an example: hungary, my country, where i come from, at the moment, the orbán government's energy policy can be summed up in one sentence: we have to buy natural gas from the russians, and we have to buy russian nuclear power plants with russian credit. now, this is in stark contrast to european strategies, and as long as the energy mix is left to the national authorities as a kind of sacred cow, these strategies that we have here make relatively little sense and are relatively ineffective. but another recommendation, if we're talking about liquid gas, in this case, you have to be very careful in the beginning, so that this liquid gas is not shale gas.
mr president, first i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadows for the very fruitful cooperation during the preparation of the report. it was evident from the beginning that despite the different political and geographical backgrounds, everybody was focusing on the interests of the cee region. the transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe has undergone substantial modernisation with the help of the eu since the accession of the new member states. now it is obvious that we need a further boost to improve cross-border connectivity along the north-south direction in order to facilitate job creation and provide economic growth throughout the region, with special attention to projects such as rail baltica or via carpatia. creating viable transport ties will additionally contribute to sustainability and security along the outer borders of the eu towards the east and towards the western balkans as well. finally, it is also essential to exploit synergies in funding between the different financial instruments of the european union without losing sight of the principle of sustainability.
in writing. from their accession to the present, the transport infrastructure of the eastern eu member states has undoubtedly undergone significant modernisation and improvement with the continuous support of the eu. however, for historical and geographical reasons, the focus has been on projects aimed at rebuilding connections to and from the western member states. this was intended to change and to offset somewhat the report under consideration. however, in addition to the east-west transport axis, the development of the north-south link is of great importance, which can lead to economic recovery in the central and eastern european member states in particular. the report is unique in that it addresses the challenges and future opportunities in the region in terms of road, rail, water and air transport and interoperability in a single document. hungary is also concerned by the fact that it is proposing to exploit several possibilities that also affect hungary. these included the further development of the via carpathia project and the construction of a route through the eastern half of the country from north to south, which was given a prominent place in the document. the report also highlights the development of relations with the candidate countries, whether ukraine or the western balkan countries. the financial framework for achieving these ambitious targets appears to be in place.
mr president, for many people in europe and all over the world, the company name ironfx became a synonym for fraud. the number of complaints about withdrawal issues against ironfx has escalated over this year as the cyberspace foreign exchange trading company refuses to pay clients’ deposits and profits for months. in such cases regulators will typically suspend the licence of the company until the discrepancies are corrected. although ironfx was fined eur 350 000 by the cyprus securities and exchange commission, it still operates, while the number of ongoing disputes and legal cases against the company continues to grow. to a previous written question regarding this case, the commission acknowledged that it had also received several complaints and said that although it does not have investigatory powers, it had asked the cypriot authorities for more information on the matter. europe has already seen the results of inadequate consumer protection in the field of financial services. unfortunately the situation for small investors on the financial market is still particularly vulnerable. therefore i call on all the authorities concerned, at national and european level, to fully commit themselves to protecting the rights of european consumers and small investors and to launch a detailed investigation into the ironfx case.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – madam president, thank you vice-president and also incidentally very much my thanks to the rapporteur and everybody else who has worked very hard on this dossier. a human rights mechanism has three necessary conditions to meet if it is to be successful, and this is what i would very much like to see myself. first of all, it must have a legal base, giving it immunity from political interference. it follows that this mechanism will only acquire legitimacy if it is not used to target member states in order to punish them. secondly, the mechanism must be completely even-handed as between member states. the slightest hint of different treatment will delegitimise it, so no cherry picking, no opportunistic targeting. this, of course, will require continuous monitoring. the third is consistency of implementation, but here a balance has to be struck between subsidiarity and all european practice. too much of the latter runs a danger of centralisation – the jacobin temptation. if the jacobins get their way, there is no chance at all that the rule-of-law culture will take root in the european union.
madam president, events in hungary, poland and some other member states highlighted a significant loophole in the legal system of the european union. there are no effective tools for gradual sanctioning the breaches of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. parliament has several times requested to change this situation, as in the tavares report and the ferrara report and on some other occasions as well, so it is clear that it is high time to create a new mechanism. but this is effective only if there is no room to apply them in a politically biased way. this has actually already happened. the commission has started a rule of law procedure against poland but failed to do the same against the hungarian government, although its action is gradually damaging democracy and political freedoms. apparently it seems that political affiliation matters. law and justice in poland are not members of the european people’s party, but hungarian fidesz is. double standards clearly exist. this must be stopped. any measures will make sense only if the political groups stop denying the obvious and stop protecting the unprotectable.
madam president, please. democracy, the rule of law, fundamental human rights and european values are the essence and foundation of the european union. it is public, but it must be said that the rule of law is not an abstract idea, but the most important guarantee of the rights of individuals and communities. when we defend the rule of law, we stand up for the rights and freedoms of european citizens. this report is a very important step in that direction. there is a need to integrate and complement existing tools more effectively, to ensure continuous monitoring and, where necessary, to impose sanctions. at the same time, i was among those who wanted to see a formulation and a procedure that were a little more radical than the current ones. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to make a statement on the situation in the middle east, and the european union has been given a mandate to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. these governments, the european far right, want to undermine an open, inclusive, culturally diverse europe and instead create a closed, nationalist, authoritarian world. we have a political and moral duty to defend the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, because if we do not, we will one day have to face the fact that we have contributed to the destruction of the european union.
madam president, i have been a member of the european parliament since 2004 and i have unfortunately since then had the bitter experience of seeing that concern for the rule of law and human rights is measured with a rather double standard, a game of daily political intentions and power relations. for example, in the last 13 years, not a single serious violation of rights of national minorities has been understood or addressed by the commission. the commission has not yet received any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. similarly, no violation was established in 2006, exactly 10 years ago, when atrocities, brutal violence, were committed against people celebrating peacefully in budapest, proven to be the people of the then socialist government. at that time, eu decision-makers were not concerned about the state of the rule of law in hungary. on the contrary, since then, there has been a rule of law campaign, when political interests demand it, and it is possible to unjustly attack hungary, while not being able to show any specific violation of the law. this shows that until there is an objective, consensus-based definition of the concept of the rule of law, this mechanism will remain the basis of double standards.
in writing. since 2010, we have seen a decline in democratic rights in many eu member states. in some member states, this has reached the point where if they applied for eu membership now, they would almost certainly not get it. we have to admit that this is a surprise to us in the european union. that is why we do not have the right eu legal framework in place in case an eu member state, which is already a member of the eu, goes off the path of democracy and uses eu funds only for its own enrichment. the creation of a european democracy monitoring mechanism to protect eu citizens when their rights are trampled on by their governments cannot therefore be delayed. the european union is much more than an economic union; we are a community of values. the eu is not some outside power, but we are. if a member state government turns its back on these values, the eu must intervene in the interests of its citizens. it is not a political weapon, but a mechanism based on objective requirements that affect everyone equally, whether it is a government of the left or of the right. such a fundamental rights pact for the eu is essential in the light of the events of recent years.
in writing. this report is important and very timely, as it has been the legal basis for effective action against member state governments that violate common european democratic standards since the establishment of the parliament and the juncker commission. we also share the frustration, which unfortunately is most evident in our impotence in the face of the leadership of my country, as the eu - in the absence of an adequate eu legal basis and mechanism, or political will, as appropriate - has been unable to prevent and sanction the orbán government's series of violations of the law, its policy of disregard for european norms and the fundamental rights of its own citizens. i therefore urge that the proposed legislation and interinstitutional agreement establishing the new mechanism also provide a strong eu response to the cynical legal tricks of the orbán regime: it addresses the situation where a government uses its significant parliamentary majority to amend legislation or even the constitution to cover up or subsequently legalise violations. i would also like to point out that we are facing another similar challenge: the eu would need much more effective common tools than it currently has to combat systemic government corruption in its member states; unfortunately, orban is also at the forefront of this area and is setting a shameful example.
mr president, 82% of europeans believe that the union should act more decisively against terrorism, according to our eurobarometer survey published this july. there are still many challenges ahead of us. information exchange has to be stepped up, interoperability of the existing databases must be ensured. it is important that all persons crossing the european union’s external borders are checked against the relevant databases. in order to keep the schengen system borderless, we have to prove to our citizens that we are in control of our external borders. more has to be done in order to prevent and fight radicalisation, which is due to failed integration, through the means of the internet is occurring faster and faster. security lies at the heart of the european project and there can be no freedom without security.
in writing. ‒ the council has drawn up a draft implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of dna data with denmark. within the meaning of the treaty on european union, the council is required to consult parliament before adopting a draft. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament approve the council's draft. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the resolution in order to ensure that the rules on the exchange of dna data in european law enforcement cooperation apply as soon as possible to the eu member state denmark. i am convinced that, in the light of new developments in international organised crime and terrorism, the european institutions and the member states must cooperate more closely and effectively in this area, which is important for the security of citizens.
in writing. ‒ it is necessary and important to strengthen crossborder law enforcement cooperation in the union. that's why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ the council has drawn up a draft implementing decision to launch the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data with denmark. within the meaning of the treaty on european union, the council is required to consult parliament before adopting a draft. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament approve the council's draft. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the resolution in order to ensure that the rules on the exchange of dactyloscopic data in european law enforcement cooperation apply as soon as possible to denmark, an eu member state. i am convinced that, in the light of new developments in international organised crime and terrorism, the european institutions and the member states must cooperate more closely and more effectively in this area, which is important for the security of citizens.
in writing. ‒ it is necessary and important to strengthen crossborder law enforcement cooperation in the union. that's why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i agree that eu member states need to maintain effective relations with china, one of the world's leading economic powers. the recommendation adopted today on the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports contributes to the deepening of diplomatic relations with china. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for up to 90 days in any 180-day period for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu 'laissez-passer', and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport to enter the union under similar conditions. the agreement takes eu-china relations to a new level and i therefore voted in favour of adopting the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation adopted today on the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports contributes to the deepening of diplomatic relations with china. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for up to 90 days in any 180-day period for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu 'laissez-passer', and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport to enter the union under similar conditions. the agreement takes eu-china relations to a new level and i therefore vote in favour of adopting the recommendation as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ by its decision of 14 september 2015, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the people's republic of china and to develop negotiating directives for an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the negotiations began on 21 september and took the form of an exchange of written notes. the parties initialled the agreement on 3 and 4 november 2015 respectively. on 26 january 2016, the council adopted a decision on the ratification of the agreement, subject to the assent of the european parliament. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for up to 90 days in any 180-day period to the territory of the other contracting party by citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu 'laissez-passer' and by citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport. the provisions of the agreement shall not apply to the united kingdom and ireland and, in the case of france and the netherlands, shall apply only to the european territories of those two states. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's recommendation on a draft council decision on an eu-china agreement, under which in the future persons holding diplomatic passports (or eu laissez-passer) can stay in each other's territory without a visa for a short period (max. 90 days), which will certainly have a positive impact on the mutually beneficial development of political, trade and business relations. i would, however, consider it important that the council should also obtain the consent of the european parliament before concluding agreements of this type and importance. in this approach, i do not share the rapporteur's hope that the relaxation of the visa regime for holders of diplomatic passports will automatically pave the way for a similar visa-free regime for private passports. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the provision of services, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of services to the general public.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for up to 90 days in any 180-day period to the territory of the other contracting party by citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu 'laissez-passer', and by citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the amendment of the provisions on the co-financing of the structural funds. the amendment is made to increase the co-financing of less developed countries in financial difficulties by 10 percentage points from the usual 50%. the european structural funds regulation allows for such an increase in co-financing for countries experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties, but in some cases the level of co-financing may be higher. greece is covered by the adjustment programme and thus receives the related financial assistance until the third quarter of 2018. however, as greece still faces serious difficulties with respect to its financial stability, the application of the increase in payments for member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties should be extended. the commission has not received any comments from the cypriot authorities on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. at the same time, the economic situation in cyprus remains fragile, reflected in its slow growth rate, declining investment, high unemployment and the volatility of its financial sector. in order to alleviate the pressure on the national budget and to accelerate the highly desirable investments, the application of the co-financing rate of 85% for the supported cypriot programmes should be extended until the closure of the operational programme. i believe that the increased co-financing is justified because these countries have already made great sacrifices to meet the unrealistic expectations of the union's leadership in economic policy, and i therefore supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis and the subsequent austerity measures have put pressure on national budgets. countries with budgetary problems may have difficulty in securing sufficient resources for the national co-financing of cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure the smooth use of the cohesion funds, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties shall receive assistance and financial assistance under articles 24 and 120 of the common provisions regulation (cpr). as the commission's proposal represents a targeted and budget-neutral solution for member states facing temporary liquidity problems, i voted in favour of the parliament's report in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis and the subsequent austerity measures have put pressure on national budgets. countries with budgetary problems may have difficulty in securing sufficient resources for the national co-financing of cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure the smooth use of the cohesion funds, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties shall receive assistance and financial assistance under articles 24 and 120 of the common provisions regulation (cpr). cyprus has been given a more advanced regional classification under the current cohesion policy and would normally receive 50% co-financing for erdf-esf programmes. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided no evidence. the commission has decided to propose the extension of the 85% co-financing eligibility until the closure of the programmes for the period 2014-2020 as it considers that the economic situation in cyprus has further deteriorated. as the commission's proposal represents a targeted and budget-neutral solution for member states facing temporary liquidity problems, i voted in favour of the parliament's report in the plenary vote.
in writing. the financial and economic crisis has put pressure on national budgets. countries with budgetary problems may have difficulty securing sufficient resources for the national co-financing of cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure the smooth use of the cohesion funds, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties shall be assisted and receive financial assistance. from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016, greece, cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal were eligible for this additional payment. greece is the only country currently benefiting from the scheme. in view of the continued fragility of the greek economy, the commission proposed that the additional aid be continued. cyprus has been given a more advanced regional classification under the current cohesion policy and would normally receive 50% co-financing for erdf-esf programmes. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided. the commission has decided to propose the extension of the 85% co-financing eligibility until the closure of the programmes for the period 2014-2020 as it considers that the economic situation in cyprus has further deteriorated. as the commission's proposal represents a targeted and budget-neutral solution for member states facing temporary liquidity problems, i voted in favour of the parliament's report in the plenary vote.
in writing. countries with budgetary problems may have difficulty securing sufficient resources to co-finance cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure the smooth use of the cohesion funds, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties shall receive assistance and financial assistance under articles 24 and 120 of the common provisions regulation (cpr). from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016, greece, cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal were eligible for this additional payment. the financial assistance programmes for cyprus, ireland, portugal and romania expired during this period, greece being the only country still benefiting from the assistance programme. in view of the continued fragility of the greek economy, the commission proposed that the additional aid be continued. cyprus has been given a more advanced regional classification under the current cohesion policy and would normally receive 50% co-financing for erdf-esf programmes. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence. the commission has decided to propose the extension of the 85% co-financing eligibility until the closure of the programmes for the period 2014-2020. as the commission's proposal represents a targeted and budget-neutral solution for member states facing temporary liquidity problems, i voted in favour of the parliament's report.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis and the subsequent austerity measures have put pressure on national budgets. countries with budgetary problems may have difficulty in securing sufficient resources for the national co-financing of cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure the smooth use of the cohesion funds, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties are assisted and given financial assistance under the common provisions regulation (cpr). from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016, greece, cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal were eligible for this additional payment. the financial assistance programmes for cyprus, ireland, portugal and romania expired during this period, greece being the only country still benefiting from the assistance programme. in view of the continued fragility of the greek economy, the commission proposed that the additional aid be continued. as the commission's proposal represents a targeted and budget-neutral solution for member states facing temporary liquidity problems, i voted in favour of the parliament's report in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis and the subsequent austerity measures have put pressure on national budgets. countries with budgetary problems may have difficulty in securing sufficient resources for the national co-financing of cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure the smooth use of the cohesion funds, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties shall receive assistance and financial assistance under articles 24 and 120 of the common provisions regulation (cpr). from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016, greece, cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal were eligible for this additional payment. the financial assistance programmes for cyprus, ireland, portugal and romania expired during this period, greece being the only country still benefiting from the assistance programme. in view of the continued fragility of the greek economy, the commission proposed that the additional aid be continued. as the commission's proposal represents a targeted and budget-neutral solution for member states facing temporary liquidity problems, i voted in favour of the parliament's report in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis and the subsequent austerity measures have put national budgets under severe pressure. countries with budgetary problems may have difficulty securing sufficient resources for the national co-financing of cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure the smooth use of the cohesion funds, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties shall receive assistance under articles 24 and 120 of the common provisions regulation (cpr). from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016, greece, cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal were eligible for this additional payment. the financial assistance programmes for cyprus, ireland, portugal and romania expired during this period, greece being the only member state which is currently a beneficiary of the assistance programme. in view of the continued fragility of the greek economy, the commission proposed that the additional aid be continued. cyprus has been given a more advanced regional classification under the current cohesion policy, so it would receive 50% co-financing for erdf-esf programmes. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided no evidence. the commission has decided to propose the extension of the 85% co-financing eligibility until the closure of the programmes for the period 2014-2020, given the further deterioration of the economic situation in cyprus.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis and the subsequent austerity measures have put pressure on national budgets. countries with budgetary problems may have difficulty in securing sufficient resources for the national co-financing of cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure the smooth use of the cohesion funds, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties shall receive assistance and financial assistance under articles 24 and 120 of the common provisions regulation (cpr). cyprus has been given a more advanced regional classification under the current cohesion policy and would normally receive 50% co-financing for erdf and esf programmes. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided no evidence. the commission has decided to propose the extension of the 85% co-financing eligibility until the closure of the programmes for the period 2014-2020 as it considers that the economic situation in cyprus has further deteriorated. as the commission's proposal represents a targeted and budget-neutral solution for member states facing temporary liquidity problems, i voted in favour of the parliament's report in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council to amend regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards the provisions relating to the financial management of certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to financial stability. in its report, the committee on regional development recommends that parliament adopt the draft regulation as amended at first reading. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis has put pressure on national budgets. countries with budgetary problems may have difficulty securing sufficient resources for the national co-financing of cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure the smooth use of the cohesion funds, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties shall be assisted and receive financial assistance. from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016, greece, cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal were eligible for this additional payment. greece is the only country currently benefiting from the scheme. in view of the continued fragility of the greek economy, the commission proposed that the additional aid be continued. cyprus has been given a more advanced regional classification under the current cohesion policy and would normally receive 50% co-financing for erdf-esf programmes. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided. the commission has decided to propose the extension of the 85% co-financing eligibility until the closure of the programmes for the period 2014-2020 as it considers that the economic situation in cyprus has further deteriorated. as the commission's proposal represents a targeted and budget-neutral solution for member states facing temporary liquidity problems, i voted in favour of the parliament's report in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree that the financial and economic crisis puts member states under considerable pressure and that pan-european interests must be taken into account in this case. in many member states, the european structural and investment funds are the only source of investment due to the crisis, and national co-financing of cohesion policy projects can also be a problem. the report amends certain provisions of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 relating to the financial management of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to financial stability. under article 24 of the regulation, several member states were entitled to an increased payment, of which only greece is now covered by the adjustment programme until the end of 2018. these changes will ensure the smooth implementation of the eu's main financial instrument, the european structural and investment funds (esifs), and will provide a targeted and budget-neutral solution to the two member states experiencing temporary liquidity problems.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis put pressure on national economies and member states introduced austerity measures to balance their budgets. in this context, it is important to ensure the smooth implementation of the eu's main financial instrument, the european structural and investment funds (esifs). i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ jean-marie le pent is charged before the paris regional court with making a video public appeal inciting racial hatred, posted on the internet on 6 june 2014. two panels of the paris regional court therefore requested that jean-marie le pen's parliamentary immunity be suspended. in its report, the committee on legal affairs states that there is no connection between the statement at issue and the parliamentary activities of jean-marie le pen, that jean-marie le pen did not act in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that there is no suspicion of any attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of jean-marie le pen. it therefore proposes that parliament suspend the immunity of jean-marie le pen. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ two investigating judges of the paris regional court have requested the suspension of jean-marie le pen's parliamentary immunity in connection with an alleged crime. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ member jane collins has applied for the preservation of her privileges and immunities in connection with the ongoing criminal proceedings in the queen's bench division of the high court in london. in his request, he claims that the timetable of the legal proceedings against him prevented him from travelling to parliamentary sittings, but the legal affairs committee points out in its report that article 7 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, to which mr collins refers, does not apply to restrictions resulting from legal proceedings. the mep also claims that meps cannot be investigated, detained or prosecuted for opinions or votes they have given in the course of their duties. in its report, the committee on legal affairs notes that the civil action for damages for defamation and libel brought against jane collins in the united kingdom concerns allegations made by the member at a party conference. according to the committee on legal affairs, there is therefore no direct and obvious link between the statements at issue and the duties of ms collins as a member of the european parliament, since they are not connected with her activities as a member of the european parliament or with the policies of the european union. in the light of the above, it proposes that the parliament should not maintain the privileges and immunities of jane collins. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ in may 2016, jane collins applied for the preservation of her privileges and immunities in connection with ongoing criminal proceedings before the queen's bench division of the high court in london. i voted in accordance with the decision of the group.
in writing. ‒ representative mario borghezio is charged in a criminal case pending before the milan court with sharing views based on supremacy and racial or ethnic hatred in a radio program. the member requested that his privileges and immunities in the case be maintained, on the ground that members of the european parliament cannot be investigated, detained or prosecuted for opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of their duties. however, the committee on legal affairs states in its report that the statements allegedly made during the interview have no direct and obvious connection with the parliamentary activities of the member and are contrary to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and cannot therefore be considered as having been made by a member of the european parliament in the exercise of his official duties. it cannot therefore be assumed that mr borghezio was a member of the european parliament in the present case and therefore proposes that the parliament should not invoke his immunity and privileges. the report also recommends that parliament express its regret that the milan court refused to stay proceedings against mr borghezio, despite having been informed that proceedings under the parliament's rules of procedure were pending in order to preserve the privileges and immunities of the member. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ mario borghezio applied for the preservation of his privileges and immunities in the context of his criminal proceedings pending before the milan court (rgnr no 41838/13 and rg gip no 12607/14); i supported the decision of the faction.
in writing. ‒ in the 2014 revision of the regulation on rail transport statistics, the european parliament included several important elements in the legislation, such as the question of ertms-equipped track sections, accessible stations or the statistical data collected on accidents. the report approved today reflects the positive results of the interinstitutional consultations. the european union has spent millions of euros to implement the ertms rail system, with varying degrees of success. it is therefore important to have a real picture of the railway sections on which the system is operational and on which it may be introduced in the near future. the list of accessible stations is very important for the disabled, and reliable statistical data are essential for this. unlike the european commission, parliament believes that the collection of data on railway accidents is also essential and important, with particular attention to accidents in the transport of dangerous goods. the cooperation of the member states, eurostat and the european railway agency (era) is essential to achieve this common objective. this will enable the commission to improve its control of railway safety. cooperation shall allow the parties concerned to complement each other's data and avoid duplication in the data collection process or excessive administrative burden for either institution. in light of these, i voted in favour of the bill.
in writing. ‒ in the 2014 revision of the regulation on rail transport statistics, the european parliament included several important elements in the legislation, such as the question of ertms-equipped track sections, accessible stations or the statistical data collected on accidents. the report approved today reflects the positive results of the interinstitutional consultations. unlike the european commission, parliament believes that the collection of data on railway accidents is also essential and important, with particular attention to accidents in the transport of dangerous goods. to reduce the number of fatalities in railway accidents, we need to improve the data collection system. it is essential that member states, eurostat and the european railway agency (era) work together to achieve the common objective of increasing the accuracy, transparency and easy comparability of rail transport statistics with other modes of transport. this required the signing of two memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission and between the era and the commission, which allow the parties concerned to complement each other's data and avoid duplication in the data collection process and the imposition of excessive administrative burdens on either institution. in view of these, i voted in favour of the adoption of the legislation as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation.
in writing. the european union has spent millions of euros to implement the ertms rail system, with varying degrees of success. we need to get a real picture of the railway sections where the system is working and where it could be introduced in the near future. the list of accessible stations is important for the disabled, for which reliable statistical data are essential. unlike the european commission, parliament believes that the collection of data on railway accidents is also essential and important, with particular attention to accidents in the transport of dangerous goods. to reduce the number of fatalities in railway accidents, we need to improve the data collection system. it is essential that member states, eurostat and the european railway agency (era) work together to achieve the common objective of increasing the accuracy, transparency and easy comparability of rail transport statistics with other modes of transport. this will enable the commission to improve its control of railway safety. this required the signing of two memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission and between the era and the commission, which allow the parties concerned to complement each other's data and avoid duplicate data collection and excessive administrative burden. in view of these considerations, i voted in favour of the adoption of the legislation as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ in its 2014 revision of the regulation on railway statistics, the european parliament included several important elements in the legislation, such as track sections equipped with the european rail traffic management system (ertms), accessible stations or the issue of statistical data collected on accidents. the report approved today reflects the positive results of the interinstitutional negotiations and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ the european union has spent millions of euros on the ertms rail system, with varying degrees of success. it is therefore important to have a real picture of the railway sections on which the system is operational and on which it may be introduced in the near future. the list of accessible stations is very important for the disabled, and reliable statistical data are essential for this. unlike the european commission, parliament believes that the collection of data on railway accidents is also essential and important, with particular attention to accidents in the transport of dangerous goods. to reduce the number of fatalities in railway accidents, we need to improve the data collection system. cooperation between member states, eurostat and the european railway agency (era) is essential to achieve the common objective of making rail transport statistics as accurate and transparent as possible and of making the data collected easily comparable with other modes of transport. this will enable the commission to improve its control of railway safety. this required the signing of two memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission and between the era and the commission, which allow the parties concerned to complement each other's data and avoid duplication in the data collection process and excessive administrative burden for either institution. in view of these, i voted in favour of the adoption of the legislation as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ in its 2014 revision of the regulation on rail transport statistics, the european parliament also included several important elements in the legislation, such as the question of ertms-equipped sections of tracks, accessible stations and accident statistics. the report approved today reflects the positive results of the interinstitutional consultations. the european union has spent millions of euros to implement the ertms rail system, with varying degrees of success. it is therefore important to have a real picture of the railway sections on which the system is operational and on which it may be introduced in the near future. unlike the european commission, parliament believes that the collection of data on railway accidents is also of great importance, with particular attention to accidents in the transport of dangerous goods. to reduce the number of fatalities in railway accidents, we need to improve the data collection system. the cooperation of the member states, eurostat and the european railway agency (era) is essential to achieve this common objective. this common objective is to collect more accurate and transparent statistical data on rail transport and to make the data collected more comparable with other modes of transport. this required the signing of two memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission and era and the commission, which allow the parties concerned to complement each other's data, thus avoiding duplication in the data collection process.
in writing. ‒ in the 2014 revision of the regulation on rail transport statistics, the european parliament included several important elements in the legislation, such as the question of ertms-equipped track sections, accessible stations or the statistical data collected on accidents. the report approved today reflects the positive results of the interinstitutional consultations. the european union has spent millions of euros to implement the ertms rail system, with varying degrees of success. the list of accessible stations is very important for the disabled, and reliable statistical data are essential for this. unlike the european commission, parliament believes that the collection of data on railway accidents is also essential and important, with particular attention to accidents in the transport of dangerous goods. to reduce the number of fatalities in railway accidents, we need to improve the data collection system. it is essential that member states, eurostat and the european railway agency (era) work together to achieve the common objective of increasing the accuracy, transparency and easy comparability of rail transport statistics with other modes of transport. this required the signing of two memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission and between the era and the commission. in view of these, i voted in favour of the adoption of the legislation as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to parliament and the council to amend regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. parliament adopted the commission proposal on first reading with substantial amendments. this led to informal trilateral consultations and informal negotiations with a view to reaching an early second reading agreement. finally, on 24 may 2016, during the second informal trilateral consultation, the negotiating team of parliament and the council reached an agreement on the matter. the text of the outcome of the negotiations was approved by the committee on transport and tourism on 15 june 2016, which recommended in its report that parliament agree with the position adopted by the council at first reading. i voted as suggested in the report.
in writing. ‒ in its 2014 revision of the regulation on rail transport statistics, the european parliament also included several important elements in the legislation, such as the question of ertms-equipped sections of tracks, accessible stations or the collection of accident statistics. the report approved today reflects the positive results of the interinstitutional consultations. the list of accessible stations is very important for the disabled, and reliable statistical data are essential for this. unlike the european commission, parliament believes that the collection of data on railway accidents is also essential and important, with particular attention to accidents in the transport of dangerous goods. to reduce the number of fatalities in railway accidents, we need to improve the data collection system. it is essential that member states, eurostat and the european railway agency (era) work together to achieve the common objective of increasing the accuracy, transparency and easy comparability of rail transport statistics with other modes of transport. this required the signing of two memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission and era and the commission, which allow the parties concerned to complement each other's data and avoid duplication in the data collection process. in view of these considerations, i voted in favour of the adoption of the legislation as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on rail transport statistics, which strengthens the cooperation between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency, thus ensuring easier access to statistical data on eu policies for eu citizens. it is welcome that the memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission and between eurostat and the european railway agency will contribute to better use and easier access to rail transport statistics by optimising the use of existing information and reducing administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ after lengthy negotiations, the council and parliament agreed that the most effective and cost-effective way to avoid parallel work between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency (era) is to strengthen cooperation between these institutions and ensure that statistical data on eu policies are easily accessible to eu citizens and stakeholders. i did not support the efdd's proposal.
in writing. ‒ inland waterways play a significant role in several countries in reducing the burden on rail and road transport, reducing accidents and promoting environmentally friendly freight transport. policies to strengthen this role should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. current statistics on inland waterway transport are insufficient to provide guidance and to allow an assessment of union policy in this sector. the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation to passenger transport in addition to freight transport at first reading. this puts inland waterway transport on a par with maritime, air and road transport, which are also collected for freight and passenger transport. this can significantly improve the safety and efficiency of inland waterway transport. that is why i voted in favour of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ policies to strengthen the role of inland navigation should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. current statistics on inland waterway transport are insufficient to provide guidance and to allow an assessment of union policy in this sector. the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation to passenger transport in addition to freight transport at first reading. this puts inland waterway transport on an equal footing with maritime, air and road transport, for which data are also collected for freight and passenger transport. parliament and the council also agreed to regulate the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts, which were valid for five years. i am pleased that this regulation has been adopted after several years of work and i believe that the use of the statistical data collected will help to significantly increase the safety and efficiency of inland waterway transport. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation.
in writing. policies to strengthen the role of inland navigation should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. current statistics on inland waterway transport are insufficient to provide guidance and to allow an assessment of union policy in this sector. the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation to passenger transport in addition to freight transport at first reading. this puts inland waterway transport on a par with maritime, air and road transport, which are also collected for freight and passenger transport. parliament, together with the council, also agreed to regulate the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts, which were set to be valid for five years. i am pleased that this regulation has been adopted after several years of work and i believe that the use of the statistical data collected will help to significantly increase the safety and efficiency of inland waterway transport. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ policies to strengthen the role of inland navigation should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. current statistics on inland waterway transport are insufficient to provide guidance and to allow an assessment of union policy in this sector. the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation to passenger transport in addition to freight transport at first reading. this puts inland waterway transport on a par with maritime, air and road transport, for which data are collected for both freight and passenger transport. parliament also agreed with the council to regulate the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts, which were valid for five years. i am pleased that this regulation has been adopted after several years of work and i believe that the use of the statistical data collected will help to significantly increase the safety and efficiency of inland waterway transport. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ policies to strengthen the role of inland navigation should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. current statistics on inland waterway transport are insufficient to provide guidance and to allow an assessment of union policy in this sector. the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation to passenger transport in addition to freight transport at first reading. this puts inland waterway transport on an equal footing with maritime, air and road transport, for which data are also collected for freight and passenger transport. parliament and the council also agreed to regulate the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts, which were valid for five years. i am pleased that this regulation has been adopted after several years of work and i believe that the use of the statistical data collected will help to significantly increase the safety and efficiency of inland waterway transport. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ policies to strengthen the role of inland navigation should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. current statistics on inland waterway transport are not adequate to provide guidance and to allow an assessment of union policy in this sector. the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation to passenger transport in addition to freight transport at first reading. this puts inland waterway transport on a par with maritime, air and road transport, which are also collected for freight and passenger transport. parliament, together with the council, also agreed to regulate the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts, which were set to be valid for five years. i think it was important that this regulation, which, by using the statistical data collected, will help to increase the safety and efficiency of inland waterway transport considerably, was adopted after several years of joint work.
in writing. ‒ policies to strengthen the role of inland navigation should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. current statistics on inland waterway transport are insufficient to provide guidance and to allow an assessment of union policy in this sector. the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation to passenger transport in addition to freight transport at first reading. this puts inland waterway transport on an equal footing with maritime, air and road transport, for which data are also collected for freight and passenger transport. parliament and the council also agreed to regulate the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts, which were valid for five years. i am pleased that this regulation has been adopted after several years of work and i believe that the use of the statistical data collected will help to significantly increase the safety and efficiency of inland waterway transport. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council to amend regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics on inland waterway transport with regard to the delegated and implementing powers to be conferred on the commission with a view to adopting certain measures. parliament adopted the commission proposal on first reading with substantial amendments. this led to informal trilateral consultations and then negotiations with a view to reaching an early second reading agreement. the negotiating team of parliament and the council finally reached an agreement on the matter by written procedure on 11 may 2016. the text of the outcome of the negotiations was approved by the committee on transport and tourism on 24 may 2016, which recommended in its report that parliament agree with the position adopted by the council at first reading. i voted as suggested in the report.
in writing. ‒ policies to strengthen the role of inland navigation should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. current statistics on inland waterway transport are insufficient to provide guidance and to allow an assessment of union policy in this sector. the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation to passenger transport in addition to freight transport at first reading. this puts inland waterway transport on a par with maritime, air and road transport, which are also collected for freight and passenger transport. parliament also agreed with the council to regulate the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts, which were set to be valid for five years. i am pleased that this regulation has been adopted after several years of work and i believe that the use of the statistical data collected will help to significantly increase the safety and efficiency of inland waterway transport. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has previously supported, in first reading, a resolution on the uniform application of technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the eu. in this resolution, the european parliament asked the european commission to extend the scope of the inland waterway freight statistics regulation to passenger transport. i share the view that a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland navigation in the transport sector must be based on reliable statistics, including data on the transport of goods and passengers. in this context, an agreement was reached with the council, which gave its full support to the compromise text. as regards the process, it is necessary to define the first steps for the integration of passenger transport statistics into the regulation. to this end, the commission will develop a methodology for collecting statistical data in cooperation with the member states and will then launch voluntary pilot projects to test the feasibility of new data collection. the commission will then send the results of these projects to parliament and the council and consider submitting a proposal for the revision of the regulation. in light of all this, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ parliament and the council agreed to consider including inland waterway passenger transport within the scope of the regulation. the first steps to integrate passenger transport statistics into the regulation have been defined. as a first step, the commission will develop a methodology for collecting statistics on inland passenger transport in cooperation with the member states. as a second step, the commission will launch voluntary pilot projects to test the feasibility of new data collection. finally, the commission will send the results of these projects to parliament and the council and will consider submitting a proposal for the revision of the regulation. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ over the past few years, i have seen that the creation of a harmonised system of sanctions has become indispensable for effective joint action. the rapporteur's proposals will certainly simplify and harmonise customs procedural sanctions, and the simplification and harmonisation of customs procedures could reduce the administrative and cost burden on european, including hungarian, businesses. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the customs union is one of the european union's pillars, the backbone of the single market. however, there is still no integrated approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, including the imposition of sanctions, i.e. although the rules are the same, the sanctions applied for their infringement differ significantly. these differences undermine the level playing field between economic operators in the european union, as they may lead to a company losing its status as an authorised economic operator in one member state and another company committing the same infringement in another member state. the european commission therefore proposed to the parliament and the council on 13 december 2013 to adopt a directive on a union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions. it has submitted the commission's proposal to parliament. the lithuanian and swedish parliaments submitted reasoned opinions to the effect that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. in its report, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, after consulting the european economic and social committee, recommends that parliament adopt the commission proposal at first reading, subject to 42 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions, which aims to eliminate differences between member states in the implementation of customs legislation, including the imposition of sanctions. it is regrettable that, despite the fact that the customs union is one of the eu's pillars, the same rules are infringed with different levels of sanctions within the union. furthermore, like the report, i consider the lack of trust between public administrations, which is also due to differences, to be a serious problem. in order to create greater legal certainty and fair competition, the customs authorities of the member states should also act in a uniform manner in the area of sanctions, in order to avoid distortions of competition and to protect effectively the financial interest of the union. the introduction of integrated rules envisaged in the report should therefore be supported, taking into account the proportionality recommendations in the context of the customs union sanctions.
in writing. ‒ the customs union and trade policy are the exclusive competence of the european union, and therefore only the eu can develop a common approach to the enforcement of customs legislation. member states have undertaken to pursue two objectives, in particular to ensure that the liaison between customs authorities and the performance of customs authorities are as effective as if they were operating as a single body, ensuring uniform checks and supporting legitimate business and adequately protecting the financial interests of the union. however, it is quite clear that a coherent action by the customs authorities of the member states on enforcement, including sanctions, cannot be achieved without an integrated approach, especially given the significant differences between the sanctioning systems of the member states, as highlighted in the 2010 report of the customs sanctions project group. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks in europe have prompted the eu institutions to review their security needs and identify their need for additional resources as early as 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service as a consequence. the european parliament's plenary session takes note of the draft amending budget no 3/2016, as submitted by the commission, and endorses the council's position thereon. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the recent terrorist attacks in europe have prompted the eu institutions to review their security needs and identify their need for additional resources as early as 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service as a consequence. the european parliament's plenary session takes note of the draft amending budget no 3/2016, as submitted by the commission, and endorses the council's position thereon. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the recent terrorist attacks in europe have prompted the eu institutions to review their security needs and identify their need for additional resources as early as 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service as a consequence. the european parliament's plenary session takes note of the draft amending budget no 3/2016, as submitted by the commission, and endorses the council's position thereon. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks in europe have prompted the eu institutions to review their security needs and identify their need for additional resources as early as 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service as a consequence. in the light of the recent terrorist attacks, i see the need for new security measures and have voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks in europe have prompted the eu institutions to review their security needs and identify their need for additional resources as early as 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service as a consequence. the european parliament's plenary session takes note of the draft amending budget no 3/2016, as submitted by the commission, and endorses the council's position thereon. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks in europe have prompted the eu institutions to review their security needs and identify the need for additional resources as early as 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service as a consequence. the european parliament's plenary session takes note of the draft amending budget no 3/2016, as submitted by the commission, and endorses the council's position thereon.
in writing. ‒ on 30 june 2016, the commission presented draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposing an increase of the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service in the light of the latest terrorist attacks. the council adopted its position on this matter on 11 october 2016. in its report, the committee on budgets proposes that parliament take note of the draft amending budget no 3/2016 as submitted by the commission and approve the council's position thereon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution of agreement on the amendment of the eu budget for 2016 to allocate eur 15.8 million to strengthen the security of the european institutions and to exempt the institutions from the 5% reduction requirement for security staff in view of the additional labour requirements. i believe that the recent terrorist attacks in brussels and elsewhere in europe, and the increased threat to the european institutions (including the ep), their staff and their facilities, in connection with these acts, clearly justify the provision of appropriate additional security measures and the necessary budgetary resources.
in writing. ‒ the latest terrorist attacks have prompted the eu institutions to review their security needs and identify their need for additional resources as early as 2016. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ a clear and justified interest in promoting the expansion of relations between the european union and iran. the country is re-entering the international economic cycle and the eu and its member states cannot be left out of the market redistribution. the report takes a balanced approach to the recognition of results and the proportion of criticisms and expectations that are necessary, particularly in the field of human rights. the report makes the important point that the gradual expansion of relations must be based on a realistic assessment of common interests and differences. accepting the difference also means acknowledging that these are people with a culture, religion, and traditions different from those of europeans. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report, entitled 'eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal', points out that the agreement is a significant achievement of international and european diplomacy, which will allow the promotion of stability throughout the middle east and the gulf region. however, it also stresses that sanctions may be re-imposed if iran does not implement the agreement. in the area of respect for human rights, the report reiterates the union's firm and principled stance against the death penalty. it strongly condemns iran for its frequent use of the death penalty and calls for an immediate moratorium on its execution. given that the long-term objective of the report is to break iran's international isolation, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report 'eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal' points out that the agreement is a significant achievement of international and european diplomacy, which will allow the promotion of stability throughout the middle east and the gulf region. at the same time, it stresses that sanctions may be re-imposed if iran does not implement the agreement. in the area of respect for human rights, the report reiterates the union's firm and principled stance against the death penalty. it strongly condemns iran for its frequent use of the death penalty and calls for an immediate moratorium on its execution. given that the long-term objective of the report is to break iran's international isolation, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the report 'eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal' points out that the agreement is a significant achievement of international and european diplomacy, which will allow the promotion of stability throughout the middle east and the gulf region. however, it also stresses that sanctions may be re-imposed if iran does not implement the agreement. in the area of respect for human rights, the report reiterates the union's firm and principled stance against the death penalty. it strongly condemns iran for its frequent use of the death penalty and calls for an immediate moratorium on its execution. given that the long-term objective of the report is to break iran's international isolation, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report, entitled 'eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal', points out that the agreement is a significant achievement of international and european diplomacy, which will allow the promotion of stability throughout the middle east and the gulf region. however, it also stresses that sanctions may be re-imposed if iran does not implement the agreement. in the area of respect for human rights, the report reiterates the union's firm and principled stance against the death penalty. the report strongly condemns iran for its frequent use of the death penalty and calls for an immediate moratorium on its execution. given that the long-term objective of the report is to break iran's international isolation, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report 'eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal' points out that the agreement is a significant achievement of international and european diplomacy, which will allow the promotion of stability throughout the middle east and the gulf region. however, it also stresses that sanctions may be re-imposed if iran does not implement the agreement. in the area of respect for human rights, the report reiterates the union's firm and principled stance against the death penalty. it strongly condemns iran for its frequent use of the death penalty and calls for an immediate moratorium on its execution. given that the long-term goal of the report is to break iran's international isolation, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report, entitled 'eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal', points out that the agreement is a significant achievement of international and european diplomacy, which will allow the promotion of stability throughout the middle east and the gulf region. at the same time, it stresses that sanctions may be re-imposed if iran does not implement the agreement. given that the long-term objective of the report is to break iran's international isolation, i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ the report 'eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal' points out that the agreement is a significant achievement of international and european diplomacy, which will allow the promotion of stability throughout the middle east and the gulf region. however, it also stresses that sanctions may be re-imposed if iran does not implement the agreement. in the area of respect for human rights, the report reiterates the union's firm and principled stance against the death penalty. it strongly condemns iran for its frequent use of the death penalty and calls for an immediate moratorium on its execution. given that the long-term goal of the report is to break iran's international isolation, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. iran has undergone significant changes that have significantly improved its international standing. instead of the previous high degree of isolation, there is now a real competition between the eu, the us, china and russia to establish better economic and political relations with iran. everyone's getting cold feet when the market is redistributed. this is also reflected in the tone of the report, which, despite the mostly moderate and factually based criticism, has a friendly tone. it is yet to be seen how the former regional power with a thousand years of cultural heritage will take its rightful place, but a compromise seems to be in order.
in writing. ‒ the committee on foreign affairs report points out that following the iran nuclear deal and developments in iranian domestic politics, there is room for reform and improvement in relations with the european union. to this end, it proposes that parliament should welcome the conclusion of the iran nuclear agreement and proposes a parliament resolution on the political, trade and economic and sectoral cooperation, regional security, rule of law, democracy and human rights issues arising from the development of the eu strategy on iran. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report, entitled 'eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal', points out that the agreement is a significant achievement of international and european diplomacy, which will allow the promotion of stability throughout the middle east and the gulf region. however, it also stresses that sanctions may be re-imposed if iran does not implement the agreement. in the area of respect for human rights, the report reiterates the union's firm and principled stance against the death penalty. it strongly condemns iran for its frequent use of the death penalty and calls for an immediate moratorium on its execution. given that the long-term objective of the report is to break iran's international isolation, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which analyses in a clearly positive way the situation following the agreement between tehran and the international community on iran's nuclear capability, with the active involvement of the eu and the eeas, and the political and economic prospects for relations between the union and iran. i agree that the lifting of sanctions opens up new prospects for cooperation, particularly in the field of trade and energy. at the same time, i consider it important for the union to include conditionality in the report as regards the internal political practices of the iranian government, in particular the death penalty and the treatment of minorities. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's nuclear programme is implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of the charter of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ the report, entitled 'eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal', points out that the agreement is a significant achievement of international and european diplomacy, which will allow the promotion of stability throughout the middle east and the gulf region. however, it also stresses that sanctions may be re-imposed if iran does not implement the agreement. in the area of respect for human rights, the report reiterates the union's firm and principled stance against the death penalty. it strongly condemns iran for its frequent use of the death penalty and calls for an immediate moratorium on its execution. given that the long-term objective of the report is to break iran's international isolation, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the council decision to lift all nuclear-related sanctions against the islamic republic of iran as a result of the implementation of the commitments in the joint comprehensive plan of action offers an opportunity to re-engage with iran and creates an opportunity and benefits for both parties by giving european companies the opportunity to re-open the iranian market. i followed the s&d's position in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the fight against corruption and its various forms is of paramount importance in a democratic state. corruption can only be effectively tackled in the long term and it is therefore very important that member states implement their commitments in this area. the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution addresses a number of important issues. among them, i particularly agree with the emphasis on the importance of more effective police and judicial cooperation at eu level, as corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension. the identification of cybercrime as an area requiring specific action is also welcome, as the rapid development of the internet has made cybercrime a significant source of income for many criminal organisations. i agree that eu regulation and cooperation between member states and eu agencies must be strengthened in this area and therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against corruption and its forms is of paramount importance in a democratic state. corruption can only be effectively tackled in the long term and it is therefore very important that member states implement their commitments in this area. the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution addresses a number of important issues. among them, i particularly agree with the emphasis on the importance of more effective police and judicial cooperation at eu level, as corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension. the identification of cybercrime as an area requiring specific action is also welcome, as the rapid development of the internet has made cybercrime a significant source of income for many criminal organisations. i agree that eu regulation and cooperation between member states and eu agencies must be strengthened in this area and therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the fight against corruption and its prevention in all its forms is of paramount importance in a democratic state. corruption can only be effectively tackled in the long term and it is therefore very important that member states implement their commitments in this area. the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution addresses a number of important issues. among them, i particularly agree with the emphasis on the importance of more effective police and judicial cooperation at eu level, as corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension. the identification of cybercrime as an area requiring specific action is also welcome, as the rapid development of the internet has made cybercrime a significant source of income for many criminal organisations. i agree that eu regulation and cooperation between member states and eu agencies must be strengthened in this area and therefore, as a member of the fidesz delegation, i vote in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against corruption and its forms is of paramount importance in a democratic state. corruption can only be effectively tackled in the long term and it is therefore very important that member states implement their commitments in this area. the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution addresses a number of important issues. among them, i particularly agree with the emphasis on the importance of more effective police and judicial cooperation at eu level, as corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension. the identification of cybercrime as an area requiring specific action is also welcome, as the rapid development of the internet has made cybercrime a significant source of income for many criminal organisations. i agree that eu regulation and cooperation between member states and eu agencies must be strengthened in this area and therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against corruption and its forms is of paramount importance in a democratic state. corruption can only be effectively tackled in the long term and it is therefore very important that member states implement their commitments in this area. the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution addresses a number of important issues. among them, i particularly agree with the emphasis on the importance of more effective police and judicial cooperation at eu level, as corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension. the identification of cybercrime as an area requiring specific action is also welcome, as the rapid development of the internet has made cybercrime a significant source of income for many criminal organisations. i agree that eu regulation and cooperation between member states and eu agencies must be strengthened in this area and therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i am voting in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against corruption and its various forms is of paramount importance in a democratic state. corruption can only be effectively tackled in the long term and it is therefore very important that member states implement their commitments in this area. the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution addresses a number of important issues. among these, the emphasis on the importance of more effective police and judicial cooperation at eu level is of particular importance, as corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension. the identification of cybercrime as an area requiring specific action is also welcome, as the rapid development of the internet has made cybercrime a significant source of income for many criminal organisations. i agree that eu regulation and cooperation between member states and eu agencies should be strengthened in this area.
in writing. ‒ the fight against corruption and its forms is of paramount importance in a democratic state. corruption can only be effectively tackled in the long term and it is therefore very important that member states implement their commitments in this area. the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution addresses a number of important issues. among them, i particularly agree with the emphasis on the importance of more effective police and judicial cooperation at eu level, as corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension. the identification of cybercrime as an area requiring specific action is also welcome, as the rapid development of the internet has made cybercrime a significant source of income for many criminal organisations. i agree that eu regulation and cooperation between member states and eu agencies must be strengthened in this area and therefore, as a member of the fidesz delegation, i vote in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. in my country, the control bodies have had very little success in combating corruption, which is not surprising given the links between individuals and the particular system of government. the winners of public procurement procedures are often predictable. the european parliament, the council and the commission have also adopted a resolution on the fight against corruption, which calls for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office to combat corruption. there can be no compromise on the need for effective tools and unwavering determination in the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs points out that organised crime is a global threat and thus requires a joint and coordinated response from the european union and its member states. it shall review international conventions on organised crime and the fight against corruption, money laundering and fraud in this field, as well as decisions and proposals adopted by the various union institutions in this field. it urges the proper transposition of existing legislation, the monitoring of its implementation and the evaluation of its effectiveness, and the speedy establishment of legislation needed to combat it effectively. it considers it necessary to establish a stronger legislative framework, to improve police and judicial cooperation at eu level, to prevent organised crime and corruption from infiltrating the legal economy, and attaches the utmost importance to the early establishment and adequate empowerment of the european public prosecutor's office. it specifically addresses issues of counterfeiting, drug trafficking, betting, match-fixing, tax havens, environmental crime, terrorism and trafficking and smuggling of human beings. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the fight against corruption and its various forms is of paramount importance in a democratic state. corruption can only be effectively tackled in the long term and it is therefore very important that member states implement their commitments in this area. the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution addresses a number of important issues. among them, i particularly agree with the emphasis on the importance of more effective police and judicial cooperation at eu level, as corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension. the identification of cybercrime as an area requiring specific action is also welcome, as the rapid development of the internet has made cybercrime a significant source of income for many criminal organisations. i agree that eu regulation and cooperation between member states and eu agencies must be strengthened in this area and therefore, as a member of the fidesz delegation, i vote in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, given that it rightly draws attention to the importance of preventing the integration of organised crime and corruption into the legal order and national economy of the individual states. the report also highlights that the current european legal and instrument framework is unable to deal with the phenomenon of a political regime or government systematising corruption for the sake of its own power and the personal enrichment of its leaders, surrounding it with self-serving legislation, as if legitimising a quasi-state corruption network. as a hungarian socialist, opposition representative, this is an important aspect for me, because today the hungarian economy is suffering most obviously from this phenomenon, to which the eu legal order has not yet found a substantive answer. among the measures proposed, the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is a particularly important and urgent task which can provide a partial answer to such legal challenges, but in my view only joint action by member states, assuming the full unity and political determination of the european council, can be effective against such governments in the future. i hope that the report which has just been adopted will help to recognise this.
in writing. ‒ the current eu policy cycle on the fight against organised crime should focus not only on so-called 'crimes of profit' (crimes for which such organisations are set up) but also on 'crimes of organisation' (membership of a criminal organisation). i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ the french communist representative's presentation on the situation of human rights and migration in third countries shows an unconditionally pro-immigrant approach. it looks at everything from this perspective, advocating the creation of a pathway for full and legal migration, and only vaguely indicating that human trafficking should be tackled and the roots addressed locally. it starts with the false premise that economic immigration is a basic human right. it is attempting to extend and further expand the concept of refugee and the rights associated with it to all economic migrants on this erroneous international legal basis, which would place a new burden on european nation states. a report that is so pro-immigrant that it solves nothing, but inflates the phrases of the already obviously failed "willkommenskultur", contains nothing new in substance. it contains everything that characterizes the plan to eliminate the traditional european nations. in view of the foregoing, i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the report, in my view, sets out exaggerated expectations for the treatment of migrants, beyond the financial capacity of the host countries. it doesn't make a clear distinction between economic migrants and refugees from war zones. this is actually encouraging economic migration. it raises important questions for the future, but the solution to the problem seems far off. in view of all this, and in line with the epp, i could not support the adoption of the report.
in writing. during the south slavic war, we encountered real refugees. the old people, women and children came to hungary. the men were defending their country, so they didn't come. they had little money, since there was no real estate to sell in a war zone. they were genuinely happy to have whatever accommodations, food, and clothing they could find. they didn't demand, they didn't threaten, they didn't trash. they quietly, humbly accepted what they were given. they didn't want to impose their own customs on us. especially not their religion. they helped where they could. then, when the time came for them to return to their own country, they thankfully said good-bye to us. that's what real refugees are. now, these are hardly the cases of today's migrants, so there's a very big problem with this report. just as there are and will be very big problems with the 80% of young men in the troops disguised as refugees. does anyone know how many of them have committed war crimes or crimes against the state? does the person who called them in take responsibility for them? or at least read the relevant passages of the geneva convention?
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on foreign affairs looks at the human rights problems arising from the handling of the migration crisis. it places great emphasis on the clear distinction between the concept of migrant and refugee, and draws attention to the human rights problems arising from the conflation of the two categories. it is ruthlessly confronting the challenges and risks of respecting the rights of migrants. calls on the union institutions to place the rights of migrants and refugees as a separate item on the agenda of the dialogues with the third countries concerned, and to give priority to the funding of european projects aimed at protecting ngos working to protect the rights of vulnerable people and migrants, human rights defenders, journalists and lawyers; i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of human rights and migration in third countries, which provides a comprehensive overview of the challenges related to migration. the report rightly recalls that developing countries host the largest proportion of refugees and migrants in the world, putting a huge strain on their support systems. i welcome the rapporteur's call for member state governments and national parliaments to put an end to the criminal legal frameworks that criminalize migrants and to adopt short, medium and long-term solutions to guarantee the safety of migrants. when i was considering my vote, the parts of the report dealing with the protection of migrant children played a big role. the text also addresses concerns about the well-being of migrant children, girls and women in a number of aspects. it is also commendable that the report also addresses the threat posed by climate change. i also urge the union and its member states to support the least developed countries in the fight against climate change, in order to avoid a worsening of poverty and an acceleration of the number of people displaced by environmental problems.
in writing. ‒ migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon with many causes, including economic conditions (e.g. developments in the distribution of goods and economic integration at regional and global levels), social and political conditions, the situation in relation to work, violence and security, the gradual deterioration of the state of the environment and the increasing severity of natural disasters. i supported the report in line with the s&d group's decision.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business activities and supply chains is making the role of international companies in ensuring respect for human rights more important and creating a situation where international standards, rules and cooperation are crucial to preventing human rights abuses in third countries. unfortunately, human rights violations continue to occur in third countries, including as a result of decisions taken by the management of certain eu companies and businesses, as well as by individuals, non-state actors and states. the report reminds corporate actors that they must respect human rights in their global operations, regardless of where users live and whether the host member state is complying with its own human rights obligations. therefore, there is a need for continuous, effective and coherent action at all levels, including national, european and international levels, to address effectively and immediately human rights abuses by transnational corporations and to address effectively legal problems and uncertainties arising from the extra-territorial dimension of corporations and their behaviour. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. looking further afield, 3 light industrial accidents in bangladesh killed 1,500 people, mostly due to inhumane employment conditions. if i am to judge the situation in my most restricted environment, it is shocking that in the context of the red-sand tragedy in the devesh colonial museum, which claimed 10 lives and turned hundreds into deserters in the heart of europe, no one has been held accountable and compensation is still pending, even though six years have passed since then. the report is clearly well-intentioned and forward-looking, offering solutions for certain cases and thus worthy of support. there are much tougher measures to be taken against profit-seeking at all costs, but that's another story.
in writing. ‒ the union is founded on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, and these principles guide its international action (including trade policy). the draft resolution of the committee on foreign affairs, however, points out that business enterprises, including those within the european union, sometimes cause or contribute to human rights abuses and affect the rights of vulnerable groups such as minorities, indigenous peoples, women and children, and contribute to environmental problems. it therefore calls for the obligations of companies, member states and the commission to protect human rights and urges the parties concerned to take the necessary steps to protect human rights. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the union is founded on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these principles also govern its international actions (including trade policy). i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ according to the international energy agency, the coming decades could be the golden age of natural gas. partly due to the development of the international market and partly due to the advantageous properties of natural gas, the role of natural gas in national energy mix is expected to increase. as the cleanest fossil energy source, it can replace the much more polluting fuels in both electricity generation and transport, thereby contributing to decarbonisation. import of lng could provide a solution to the expected significant decrease in production within the union and could lead to diversification of resources in member states that are dependent on a single supplier. the union strategy on lng and natural gas storage is part of the energy union winter package. it aims to make the natural gas system more diversified and flexible, thereby contributing to a more secure, predictable and competitive supply of natural gas. the report points out that increasing the utilisation of existing infrastructure is a top priority, but where necessary, the necessary new investments must also be made. in order to increase efficiency, particular attention should be paid to european gas storage facilities. it is also necessary to build and bi-directionalize the associated wiring with particular regard to missing interconnectors and to apply appropriate transmission tariffs. the necessary developments could allow the benefits of gas diversification and competition to be enjoyed outside the host countries. by adopting the report, the european parliament has declared that it is crucial to resolve the situation of vulnerable member states.
in writing. according to the international energy agency, the coming decades could be a golden age for natural gas. partly due to the development of the international market and partly due to the advantageous properties of natural gas, the role of natural gas in national energy mix is expected to increase. as the cleanest fossil energy source, it can replace the much more polluting fuels in both electricity generation and transport, thereby contributing to decarbonisation. import of lng could provide a solution to the expected significant decrease in production within the union and could lead to diversification of resources in member states that are dependent on a single supplier. the union strategy on lng and natural gas storage is part of the energy union winter package. it aims to make the natural gas system more diversified and flexible, thereby contributing to a more secure, predictable and competitive supply of natural gas. the report points out that increasing the utilisation of existing infrastructure is a top priority, but where necessary, the necessary new investments must also be made. in order to increase efficiency, particular attention should be paid to european gas storage facilities. it is also necessary to build and bi-directionalize the associated wiring with particular regard to missing interconnectors and to apply appropriate transmission tariffs. the necessary developments could allow the benefits of gas diversification and competition to be enjoyed outside the host countries. by adopting the report, the european parliament has declared that it is crucial to resolve the situation of vulnerable member states.
in writing. according to the international energy agency, the coming decades could be a golden age for natural gas. partly due to the development of the international market and partly due to the advantageous properties of natural gas, the role of natural gas in national energy mix is expected to increase. as the cleanest fossil energy source, it can replace the much more polluting fuels in both electricity generation and transport, thereby contributing to decarbonisation. import of lng could provide a solution to the expected significant decrease in production within the union and could lead to diversification of resources in member states that are dependent on a single supplier. the union strategy on lng and natural gas storage is part of the energy union winter package. it aims to make the natural gas system more diversified and flexible, thereby contributing to a more secure, predictable and competitive supply of natural gas. the report points out that increasing the utilisation of existing infrastructure is a top priority, but where necessary, the necessary new investments must also be made. in order to increase efficiency, particular attention should be paid to european gas storage facilities. it is also necessary to build and bi-directionalize the associated wiring with particular regard to missing interconnectors and to apply appropriate transmission tariffs. the necessary developments could allow the benefits of gas diversification and competition to be enjoyed outside the host countries. by adopting the report, the european parliament has declared that it is crucial to resolve the situation of vulnerable member states.
in writing. ‒ according to the international energy agency, the coming decades could be the golden age of natural gas. the role of natural gas in national energy mix is expected to increase, partly due to the development of the international market and partly due to its beneficial properties. as the cleanest fossil energy source, it can replace the much more polluting fuels in both electricity generation and transport, thereby contributing to decarbonisation. import of lng could provide a solution to the expected significant decrease in production within the union and could lead to diversification of resources in member states that are dependent on a single supplier. the union strategy on lng and natural gas storage is part of the energy union winter package. it aims to make the natural gas system more diversified and flexible, thereby contributing to a more secure, predictable and competitive supply of natural gas. the report points out that increasing the utilisation of existing infrastructure is a top priority, but where necessary, the necessary new investments must also be made. in order to increase efficiency, particular attention should be paid to european gas storage facilities. it is also necessary to build and bi-directionalize the associated wiring with particular regard to missing interconnectors and to apply appropriate transmission tariffs. the necessary developments could allow the benefits of gas diversification and competition to be enjoyed outside the host countries. by adopting the report, the european parliament has declared that it is crucial to resolve the situation of vulnerable member states.
in writing. ‒ according to the international energy agency, the coming decades could be the golden age of natural gas. partly due to the development of the international market and partly due to the advantageous properties of natural gas, the role of natural gas in national energy mix is expected to increase. as the cleanest fossil energy source, it can replace the much more polluting fuels in both electricity generation and transport, thereby contributing to decarbonisation. import of lng could provide a solution to the expected significant decrease in production within the union and could lead to diversification of resources in member states that are dependent on a single supplier. the union strategy on lng and natural gas storage is part of the energy union winter package. it aims to make the natural gas system more diversified and flexible, thereby contributing to a more secure, predictable and competitive supply of natural gas. the report points out that increasing the utilisation of existing infrastructure is a top priority, but where necessary, the necessary new investments must also be made. in order to increase efficiency, particular attention should be paid to european gas storage facilities. it is also necessary to build and bi-directionalize the associated wiring with particular regard to missing interconnectors and to apply appropriate transmission tariffs. the necessary developments could allow the benefits of gas diversification and competition to be enjoyed outside the host countries. by adopting the report, the european parliament has declared that it is crucial to resolve the situation of vulnerable member states.
in writing. ‒ according to the international energy agency, the coming decades could be the golden age of natural gas. partly due to the development of the international market and partly due to the advantageous properties of natural gas, the role of natural gas in national energy mix is expected to increase. as the cleanest fossil energy source, it can replace the much more polluting fuels in both electricity generation and transport, thereby contributing to decarbonisation. import of lng could provide a solution to the expected significant decrease in production within the union and could lead to diversification of resources in member states that are dependent on a single supplier. the union strategy on lng and natural gas storage is part of the energy union winter package. it aims to make the natural gas system more diversified and flexible, thereby contributing to a more secure, predictable and competitive supply of natural gas. the report points out that increasing the utilisation of existing infrastructure is a top priority, but where necessary, the necessary new investments must also be made. in order to increase efficiency, particular attention should be paid to european gas storage facilities. it is also necessary to build and bi-directionalize the associated wiring with particular regard to missing interconnectors and to apply appropriate transmission tariffs. the necessary developments could allow the benefits of gas diversification and competition to be enjoyed outside the host countries. by adopting the report, the european parliament has declared that it is crucial to resolve the situation of vulnerable member states.
in writing. ‒ the ini report on an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage was adopted today (415+/225-/15). greens/efa voted against the report as it is very much in favour of expansion of lng and related infrastructure. such developments – based on distorted projections – would result in stranded assets and lock the eu into carbon intense infrastructure. this would create unnecessary costs and delays in achieving energy transition and the decarbonisation of energy systems in the eu. the gyürk report also urges the establishment of new markets for lng and the elimination of market barriers to a global free trade, which would lead to increased imports of fracked gas, regardless of the clear negative effects on the environment. continued reliance on fossil fuels is also in conflict with the eu’s commitments made in paris as part of the new global climate agreement. unfortunately, progressive text proposals, such as on methane leakage and sustainable production conditions, were not included in the final report. in short, we voted against the report because it neglects the context of the eu energy and climate targets and the urgent need to tackle climate change and to phase out fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ according to the international energy agency, the coming decades could be the golden age of natural gas. partly due to the development of the international market and partly due to the advantageous properties of natural gas, the role of natural gas in national energy mix is expected to increase. as the cleanest fossil energy source, it can replace the much more polluting fuels in both electricity generation and transport, thereby contributing to decarbonisation. the import of lng could provide a solution to the expected significant decrease in production within the union and could lead to diversification of resources in member states that are dependent on a single supplier. the union strategy on lng and natural gas storage is part of the energy union winter package. it aims to make the natural gas system more diversified and flexible, thereby contributing to a more secure, predictable and competitive supply of natural gas. the report points out that increasing the utilisation of existing infrastructure is a top priority, but where necessary, the necessary new investments must also be made. in order to increase efficiency, particular attention should be paid to european gas storage facilities. it is also necessary to build and bi-directionalize the associated wiring with particular regard to missing interconnectors and to apply appropriate transmission tariffs. the necessary developments could allow the benefits of gas diversification and competition to be enjoyed outside the host countries. by adopting the report, the european parliament has declared that it is crucial to resolve the situation of vulnerable member states.
in writing. there are many environmental problems, many of which are caused by fossil fuels. however, it is necessary to distinguish the use of natural gas within this, because it contains less pollutants than oil, compared to coal, so that when burned, it does not or does not burden our environment with heavy metals, sulfur compounds, nitrogen oxides, micro-particulate matter. for this reason and for diversification reasons, the report contains eligible elements for lng. but it is unacceptable that ukraine is trying to place the burden of natural gas supplies on the taxpayers of the union by buying expensive us-sourced lng instead of cheap russian gas and thereby providing not only the ukrainian population but also their industrial companies with the opportunity to compete with eu petrochemical companies.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on industry, research and energy reviews the role of natural gas, including lng, and its storage in the european union's energy policy, with particular regard to the union's energy dependence, security of supply, energy poverty, the targeted reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the transition to a low-carbon economy. it shall take into account the european infrastructure for the storage of natural gas and the recovery of liquefied natural gas. it urges the necessary steps to be taken to achieve an energy union that reduces the use of energy, in particular non-renewable energy. i voted in favour of the draft resolution, although i did not see in it any call for more decisive action to curb the use of non-renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ according to the international energy agency, the coming decades could be the golden age of natural gas. partly due to the development of the international market and partly due to the advantageous properties of natural gas, the role of natural gas in national energy mix is expected to increase. as the cleanest fossil energy source, it can replace the much more polluting fuels in both electricity generation and transport, thereby contributing to decarbonisation. import of lng could provide a solution to the expected significant decrease in production within the union and could lead to diversification of resources in member states that are dependent on a single supplier. the union strategy on lng and natural gas storage is part of the energy union winter package. it aims to make the natural gas system more diversified and flexible, thereby contributing to a more secure, predictable and competitive supply of natural gas. the report points out that increasing the utilisation of existing infrastructure is a top priority, but where necessary, the necessary new investments must also be made. in order to increase efficiency, particular attention should be paid to european gas storage facilities. it is also necessary to build and bi-directionalize the associated wiring with particular regard to missing interconnectors and to apply appropriate transmission tariffs. the necessary developments could allow the benefits of gas diversification and competition to be enjoyed outside the host countries. by adopting the report, the european parliament has declared that it is crucial to resolve the situation of vulnerable member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report because i agree that liquefied natural gas reduces our dependence on conventional pipelines, but i am afraid that the approach offers only a short-term solution. i think that basically we should be boosting carbon-free energy production and energy efficiency. i agree that we should address this at eu level, but the report is not clear. on the one hand, it calls for eu-wide action and investment, and on the other, it only occasionally calls for caution. i find little in the way of sustainability or energy efficiency logic, even if this has changed somewhat in a positive direction in the final vote (e.g. by putting more emphasis on the paris climate agreement). reducing dependence on a few suppliers is necessary and may lead to price reductions. i disagreed with the recommendation in the report that the union should provide the necessary infrastructure. i think we're spending billions of euros unnecessarily on a project that will probably be replaced by renewable energy in a few decades. instead of investing in fossil fuels, we should be investing in alternative energy sources!
in writing. ‒ according to the international energy agency, the coming decades could be the golden age of natural gas. partly due to the development of the international market and partly due to the advantageous properties of natural gas, the role of natural gas in national energy mix is expected to increase. as the cleanest fossil energy source, it can replace the much more polluting fuels in both electricity generation and transport, thereby contributing to decarbonisation. import of lng could provide a solution to the expected significant decrease in production within the union and could lead to diversification of resources in member states that are dependent on a single supplier. the union strategy on lng and natural gas storage is part of the energy union winter package. it aims to make the natural gas system more diversified and flexible, thereby contributing to a more secure, predictable and competitive supply of natural gas. the report points out that increasing the utilisation of existing infrastructure is a top priority, but where necessary, the necessary new investments must also be made. in order to increase efficiency, particular attention should be paid to european gas storage facilities. it is also necessary to build and bi-directionalize the associated wiring with particular regard to missing interconnectors and to apply appropriate transmission tariffs. the necessary developments could allow the benefits of gas diversification and competition to be enjoyed outside the host countries. by adopting the report, the european parliament has declared that it is crucial to resolve the situation of vulnerable member states.
in writing. ‒ ensure access to safe and affordable energy for all eu citizens. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ since 2009, there has been a regulation governing the eu's fisheries control system, which in principle applies to the whole eu. however, the uniform interpretation of its paragraphs in all member states has so far failed. the rapporteur visited the ports and fishing establishments of the most affected eu member states, from italy to france, from spain to belgium and germany. the experience gained in the field has resulted in a very practice-oriented report to provide a common understanding of fisheries controls. the controls on the conduct of fishing, the correct use of gear, the quality control of fishery products and other elements of the product range vary widely between member states. there are also very significant differences in terms of severity and consistency, as well as in the application of sanctions. in the course of their work, fishermen in different ports experience different interpretations and application of the rules. this hurts their sense of justice and results in their not taking their obligations seriously. based on all this experience, the report proposes solutions that are sufficiently thorough and practice-oriented to harmonise the system of control of fishing activities within the eu, and i therefore supported its adoption.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report focuses on the coordination of fisheries controls between eu member states with sea-basin. the question of the uniform application of eu law and its effectiveness is of particular importance to me. this is how it should be in all eu member states. i voted in favour of the thomas report.
in writing. sea fish and seafood are very important for the diet and are a healthy source of protein for the eu population. however, this is subject to a number of conditions, which is why a regulation on the eu fisheries control system has been in place since 2009, without any harmonisation or uniform interpretation of its paragraphs in all member states. it is commendable that the rapporteur has gained direct experience by visiting the ports and fisheries institutions of the eu member states most affected. he has personally heard the fishermen and the administrative experts and, with the knowledge he has acquired, he has put on the table a very accurate, practical report which can only be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which calls for simpler, more comprehensive and more uniform rules in the common fisheries policy, particularly in the areas of transparency, cooperation, innovation and equal treatment. fisheries control currently varies from one member state to another and from one fishing area to another, and the report makes proposals to overcome this fragmentation. we need to ensure the uniform application of legislation in the eu, without which there are efficiency issues. for example, in some member states, a single inspectorate carries out checks from the fishing gear to the consumer, while in others there are several authorities simultaneously to carry out these tasks. the single control system should be a priority in order to achieve the objectives of the common fisheries policy. the next review of the control regulation should establish effective rules to be able to prevent, detect and sanction abuses in a uniform manner. i agree that the european fisheries control agency should have a greater role in this process. to this end, it is important to establish closer cooperation between the member states, the office and the european commission.
in writing. ‒ fishermen often complain that their fisheries controls were much stricter than those of their neighbours, whether in another member state or in another fishing zone. fishermen everywhere also claim that their profession is the most controlled of all. this sense of injustice raises a real question: the question of the uniform application of the law and thus its effectiveness. since it is likely that the rules will not be applied with the same rigor, it is feared that a situation will arise in which the rule will not be respected on the grounds that it is not the same for everyone. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ from their accession to the present, the transport infrastructure of the eastern eu member states has undoubtedly undergone significant modernisation and improvement with the eu's continuous support. however, for historical and geographical reasons, the focus has been on projects aimed at rebuilding connections to and from the western member states. this was to be changed and somewhat offset by the adopted report. however, in addition to the east-west transport axis, the development of the north-south link is of great importance, which can lead to economic recovery in the central and eastern european member states in particular. the report is unique in that it addresses the challenges and future opportunities in the region in terms of road, rail, water and air transport and interoperability in a single document. hungary is also concerned by the fact that it is proposing to exploit several possibilities that also affect hungary. these included the further development of the via carpathia project and the construction of a route through the eastern half of the country from north to south, which was highlighted in the document. the report also highlights the development of relations with the candidate countries, whether ukraine or the western balkan countries. the financial framework necessary to achieve the ambitious targets will be provided by the resources of the european structural and investment funds, the european network financing facility (enf), the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), and by the instruments of the european fund for strategic investments and the exploitation of synergies between them. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ from their accession to the present, the transport infrastructure of the eastern eu member states has undoubtedly undergone significant modernisation and improvement with the eu's continuous support. however, for historical and geographical reasons, the focus has been on projects aimed at rebuilding connections to and from the western member states. this was to be changed and somewhat offset by the adopted report. however, in addition to the east-west transport axis, the development of the north-south link is of great importance, which can lead to economic recovery in the central and eastern european member states in particular. the report is unique in that it addresses the challenges and future opportunities in the region in terms of road, rail, water and air transport and interoperability in a single document. the financial framework necessary to achieve the ambitious targets will be provided by the resources of the european structural and investment funds, the european network financing facility (enf), the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), and by the instruments of the european fund for strategic investments and the exploitation of synergies between them. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. from their accession to the present, the transport infrastructure of the eastern eu member states has undoubtedly undergone significant modernisation and improvement with the continuous support of the eu. however, for historical and geographical reasons, the focus has been on projects aimed at rebuilding connections to and from the western member states. this was to be changed and somewhat offset by the adopted report. the report is unique in that it addresses the challenges and future opportunities in the region in terms of road, rail, water and air transport and interoperability in a single document. hungary is also concerned by the fact that it is proposing to exploit several possibilities that also affect hungary. these included the further development of the via carpathia project and the construction of a route through the eastern half of the country from north to south, which was highlighted in the document. the report also highlights the development of relations with the candidate countries, whether ukraine or the western balkan countries. the financial framework necessary to achieve the ambitious targets will be provided by the resources of the european structural and investment funds, the european network financing facility (enf), the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), and by the instruments of the european fund for strategic investments and the exploitation of synergies between them. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ since their accession, the transport infrastructures of the eastern eu member states have undergone major modernisation and improvement with eu support. however, until now, the focus has been on projects aimed at rebuilding connections to and from the western member states, for historical and geographical reasons. the report adopted today is intended to change this and to compensate in some way. however, in addition to the east-west transport axis, the development of the north-south link is of great importance, which can contribute to the economic recovery of the central and eastern european member states in particular. the report is unique in that it addresses the challenges and future opportunities in the region in terms of road, rail, water and air transport and interoperability in a single document. the report also suggests the exploitation of several opportunities that affect hungary. these included the further development of the via carpathia project and the construction of a route through the eastern half of the country from north to south, which was highlighted in the document. the report also highlights the development of relations with the candidate countries, whether ukraine or the western balkan countries. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is unique in that it addresses the challenges and future opportunities in the region in terms of road, rail, water and air transport and interoperability in a single document. hungary is also concerned by the fact that it is proposing to exploit several possibilities that also affect hungary. these included the further development of the via carpathia project and the construction of a route through the eastern half of the country from north to south, which was highlighted in the document. the report also highlights the development of relations with the candidate countries, whether ukraine or the western balkan countries. the financial framework necessary to achieve the ambitious targets will be provided by the resources of the european structural and investment funds, the european network financing facility (enf), the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), and by the instruments of the european fund for strategic investments and the exploitation of synergies between them. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ since their accession, the transport infrastructure of the eastern eu member states has undergone major modernisation and improvement with the continuous support of the eu. however, for historical and geographical reasons, more emphasis was placed on projects aimed at rebuilding connections to and from the western member states. this was to be changed and somewhat offset by the adopted report. however, in addition to the east-west transport axis, the development of the north-south link is also of great importance, which can lead to economic recovery, in particular in the central and eastern european member states. the report is unique in that it addresses the challenges and future opportunities in the region in terms of road, rail, water and air transport and interoperability between them in a unified way. it is also important for hungary to take advantage of several opportunities that affect our country. these included the further development of the via carpathia project and the construction of a route through the eastern half of the country from north to south, which was highlighted in the document. the report also highlights the development of relations with the candidate countries, whether ukraine or the western balkan countries. the financial framework necessary to achieve the ambitious targets will be provided by the resources of the european structural and investment funds, the european network financing facility (enf), the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), and by the instruments of the european fund for strategic investments and the exploitation of synergies between them.
in writing. ‒ from their accession to the present, the transport infrastructure of the eastern eu member states has undoubtedly undergone significant modernisation and improvement with the eu's continuous support. however, for historical and geographical reasons, the focus has been on projects aimed at rebuilding connections to and from the western member states. this was to be changed and somewhat offset by the adopted report. however, in addition to the east-west transport axis, the development of the north-south link is of great importance, which can lead to economic recovery in the central and eastern european member states in particular. the report is unique in that it addresses the challenges and future opportunities in the region in terms of road, rail, water and air transport and interoperability in a single document. hungary is also concerned by the fact that it is proposing to exploit several possibilities that also affect hungary. these included the further development of the via carpathia project and the construction of a route through the eastern half of the country from north to south, which was given a prominent place in the document. the financial framework necessary to achieve the ambitious targets will be provided by the resources of the european structural and investment funds, the european network financing facility (enf), the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), and by the instruments of the european fund for strategic investments and the exploitation of synergies between them. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the draft of the committee on transport and tourism draws attention to the challenges of accessibility and connectivity of the transport infrastructure in estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, croatia, romania and bulgaria. the transport infrastructure of these member states has undergone significant modernisation and development from the pre-accession period to date with the continuous support of the union, but there are still serious shortcomings in the accessibility and interconnectivity of transport infrastructure in the central and eastern parts of the union. the report suggests that member states and the commission should focus on building the missing links, removing bottlenecks and ensuring seamless connections. as the development of transport infrastructure requires large investments, the ceec member states and the commission should enhance cooperation at all stages of transport policy and project planning. i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ from their accession to the present, the transport infrastructure of the eastern eu member states has undoubtedly undergone significant modernisation and improvement with the eu's continuous support. however, for historical and geographical reasons, the focus has been on projects aimed at rebuilding connections to and from the western member states. this was to be changed and somewhat offset by the adopted report. however, in addition to the east-west transport axis, the development of the north-south link is of great importance, which can lead to economic recovery in the central and eastern european member states in particular. the report is unique in that it addresses the challenges and future opportunities in the region in terms of road, rail, water and air transport and interoperability in a single document. hungary is also concerned by the fact that it is proposing to exploit several possibilities that also affect hungary. these included the further development of the via carpathia project and the construction of a route through the eastern half of the country from north to south, which was given a prominent place in the document. the financial framework necessary to achieve the ambitious targets will be provided by the resources of the european structural and investment funds, the european network financing facility (enf), the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), and by the instruments of the european fund for strategic investments and the exploitation of synergies between them. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the development of connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. i agree that good quality transport links are essential for europe's economic activity and for the quality of life of its citizens. easily accessible and well-connected transport networks are indeed essential for promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion within and between the member states of the union. i welcome the fact that the report focuses on measures to address the needs of cyclists and the population in sparsely populated and hard-to-reach regions and on more environmentally friendly transport options. i also agree with the proposals to modernise railways and inland waterways. like the report, i support the need to improve the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the union, taking into account economic needs and the principles of sustainable development, with a focus on coordination with the candidate countries.
in writing. ‒ good quality transport connections are essential for europe's economic activities and for the quality of life of its citizens. easily accessible and well-connected transport networks, including the local, regional, national and cross-border dimensions of passenger and freight transport, are essential for promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion within and between the member states of the union. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes a new form of political dominance of the eu over its member states. they could be 'stamped' by a body of independent experts if, for example, their citizens defend themselves against decisions taken by the eu institutions in sensitive areas by means of a referendum or a constitutional amendment. the adoption of the motion indicates that the majority of the ep has learned nothing from brexit and wants to continue to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign countries. i voted against the report, of course.
in writing. ‒ until there is an objective definition of the concept of the rule of law, agreed by common consensus among all member states, any rule of law mechanism will be part of the current party-political games and will remain a breeding ground for double standards. therefore, as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ until there is an objective and consensual definition of the concept of the rule of law by the 27 member states, any rule of law mechanism will be part of the current party-political games and will remain a breeding ground for double standards. therefore, as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted against the report.
in writing. until an objective definition of the concept of the rule of law is agreed by common consensus among the 27 member states, any rule of law mechanism will be part of the current party-political games and will remain a breeding ground for double standards. therefore, as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted against the report.
in writing. the report on the establishment of the eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights underlines that the union is founded on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. this is one of the prerequisites for mutual recognition and trust within the union, the document stresses. although this eu mechanism is not legally sufficiently well-founded, and given that it can also provide an appropriate framework for the protection of the minority and linguistic rights of hungarian communities living outside hungary's borders, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ until there is an objective and commonly agreed definition of the concept of the rule of law by the 27 member states, any rule of law mechanism will be part of the current party-politics and will remain a source of double standards. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the establishment of the eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights underlines that the union is founded on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. this is one of the prerequisites for mutual recognition and trust within the union, the document stresses. although this eu mechanism is not legally sufficiently well-founded, and given that it can also provide an appropriate framework for the protection of the minority and linguistic rights of hungarian communities living outside hungary's borders, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ until there is an objective and consensual definition of the concept of the rule of law by the 27 member states, any rule of law mechanism will be part of the current party-political games and will remain a breeding ground for double standards. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ until there is an objective and commonly agreed definition of the concept of the rule of law by the 27 member states, any rule of law mechanism will be part of the current party-politics and will remain a source of double standards. therefore, as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i voted against the report.
in writing. the definition of democracy in ultra-liberal circles is very specific, they believe that only referendums that produce the same result as their position are acceptable, but because such referendums are rare, it is best not to have referendums. their dominance in the press has often been used to suppress critical voices and to maintain a state of terror, brutally manipulating public opinion, as we have seen in the investigative works of the famous german journalist udo ulfkotte. such trends are unacceptable. the union must respect the national identities of the member states, which form an integral part of their fundamental political and constitutional arrangements.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs states that the european union is a community of values; among the guiding principles of the first articles of the treaties are democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, which are also conditions for eu membership. however, while the union has a wide range of instruments at its disposal to implement its legislation and the treaties, this is no longer the case for the enforcement of the treaty obligations in the areas of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the european commission is faced with resistance or explicit rejection when it comes to enforcing commonly agreed rules or recognising the union's right to enforce them. the report therefore considers it essential to adopt a framework that allows the eu to address not only violations of specific eu legislation, but also serious threats (and risks) to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it therefore proposes the adoption of a european union pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the form of an interinstitutional agreement, the annex to the proposal also contains a specific proposal for its text. i voted for the motion all the more gladly because i myself have long felt the need to bring such an agreement under control.
in writing. ‒ in order not to contradict myself due to my duty as vice-president, in cases where the faction votes differently from the hungarian representatives in the roll-call votes, i will not participate directly in the vote. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on. i did the same thing in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report because i consider it important and timely, given that the european parliament and the commission have, since their creation, been obliged to create a legal basis for effective action against member state governments that violate common european democratic standards. unfortunately, this lack of action is most evident in the union's inability to act against the leadership of my country, as the eu for lack of adequate eu legal basis and mechanism, or for lack of political will has been unable to prevent and sanction the repeated violations of the orbán government, its policy of disregard for european norms and the fundamental rights of its own citizens. in this context, i hope and urge that the legislation and interinstitutional agreement establishing the proposed new mechanism will also provide a powerful eu response to the legal tricks of the orbán regime: it will address the situation where the government of a member state uses its substantial parliamentary majority to amend legislation or even the constitution to cover up or subsequently legalise violations. the report now adopted could provide an impetus for further european legislative work in this area.
in writing. ‒ the report on the establishment of the eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights underlines that the union is founded on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. this is one of the prerequisites for mutual recognition and trust within the union, the document stresses. although this eu mechanism is not legally sufficiently well-founded, and given that it can also provide an appropriate framework for the protection of the minority and linguistic rights of hungarian communities living outside hungary's borders, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ while the european union has a number of tools at its disposal to ensure respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, there are significant gaps and in practice these tools are limited in scope, inadequate and ineffective, or unlikely to be used. the illiberal rule of the orbán government is a disgrace to hungary and a disgrace to europe. the enlightened european community needs mechanisms that give us the tools to deal with governments that ignore our core values. this was once the loudest demand of fidesz. they were in opposition then, but now they're in opposition to europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in thanking vice-president timmermans for his presentation of the commission work programme 2017, i would like to follow from where he left off by saying that the commission should not, and does not need to do it alone, because in parliament this year there was an exemplary procedure for preparation of the commission work programme 2017. basically the groups tabled in parliament, in time to influence the commission’s decisions this october, the joint resolution on the principles of the work programme 2017. i think also there are some new elements in this process because the new modified or modernised interinstitutional agreement is also something which is aimed at making the cooperation between the three institutions much better. i would like to underline that we would agree with the content which you presented, mr timmermans, and which was based very much on what we have been bringing together here in parliament among the different political groups. i also agree, and my group agrees too, with the method and the better law-making method, but in general, as well, that the union should be big on big things and small on small things. the main important thing is that the single market is a great achievement and source of satisfaction but it still needs to be expanded and the digital dimension is where we should go the most. economic recovery, as you have mentioned, is still fragile. the strategic investment plan has already shown results and should be managed in the future in a more effective way. conditions to modernise the labour market and facilitate mobility. and here is the issue of migration where we are still here, discussing what to do about the distribution of migrants inside and how to stop this crisis and how to create the necessary conditions. safeguarding european values is a daily task; it should be embedded in every act we do and stability and revitalisation are the two keywords which we consider most important and we support the commission in achieving these goals.
mr president the european commission has a key role to play in tackling two historic challenges. one is to keep our continent as europe. because europe is not just a geographical name: it is us, the people who live here, our past, our history, our identity. we can and should respect the culture and religion of people on other continents, but we cannot accept the immigration of millions of people who want to aggressively enforce their own customs, religious precepts. the other task is to find a new form of cooperation between european countries after brexit, because it is quite clear that there is no alternative to this cooperation, but the process that is accelerating after lisbon towards the creation of a centralized state, there must be an alternative, and if this is not recognized, it will lead to the disintegration of europe.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, you are a historian, we know that, and you have referred to certain historical perspectives, particularly in retrospect. but let me also say something: in the spring of 2006, when mr juncker received the charles prize, he said that social europe would be achieved within ten years or this integration would end. do you think mr juncker is wrong, or is this over?
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me start by making a comment on procedure. i came here immediately after the college decided on the commission work programme. we immediately sent the commission work programme to every single member of parliament and i immediately came here before going anywhere else – not talking to the press, not talking to anybody else – to make a statement on the commission work programme out of respect for your parliament and out of respect for your work. if you do not want that, just let us know and we will not do it. i will go and talk to the press and we can talk to each other later on. this is how i am trying to show respect for the european parliament and give you, before anybody else, the commission work programme. of course this is not the moment that we go through every detail of the commission’s work programme. i am not expecting you to have read everything in 15, 20 or 30 minutes. that is not the point. the point is that i believe that if we have a decision in the college on the commission’s work programme, you should be the first to hear about this and to be informed about this. i think this is a sign of respect and certainly not a sign of disrespect. secondly, on many of the things you said there will obviously be extensive debates in the months to come. but let me just pick up on some of the points that were made. this commission is very much aware of the fact that people in europe see europe as a source of insecurity, as a source of injustice and as a source of globalisation that takes away their rights and that takes away the securities they had. we need to change that paradigm into a different paradigm, where europe can show that, by doing concrete things, we do indeed improve their lives, we do indeed improve employment, we do indeed improve europe’s competitive position worldwide and we do provide protection by being very concrete in concrete measures there where we have a competence at european level. that is what the commission work programme is focused upon again this year. my second point is that, in the preparation of the commission work programme, we have gone extensively through debates with your parliament, starting with the debate on and after the state of the union address by president juncker leading up to the letter of intent; comments were given and the discussion was held in the conference of committee chairs. that went extremely well and what we see today is completely in line with what we have discussed before so there can be no huge surprises. obviously, because you are a political institution with divergent political views, not everybody will be equally happy with the content of what we did. this is where we will come to the debate in the months to come with all my colleagues. on transparency, perhaps we could work, for instance, on the interinstitutional agreement on the mandatory transparency register to improve transparency. perhaps ms in 't veld can then convince her group to vote for the giegold report on this, which would help us to bring it forward. so, in that sense, we can continue to work together to improve transparency. yes, we need a pro—growth policy and, yes, everybody would agree worldwide that what europe lacks most is investment. that is why the commission work programme for next year puts a lot of emphasis on increasing the possibilities of investment, of increasing the possibilities – especially for the younger generation – for getting people to take up a job, to take up an internship, to take up a course of study, which has been a successful approach and we need to expand on that. i can assure mr eickhout that i am not about self—congratulation. frankly, i remove every sentence that says ‘oh, we are so great’ in any communication coming out of the commission on my behalf. so do not worry about that. i know where we are. i think i was the first, also in my own country, to announce that i saw the extent of the problems that we are in. i have also said quite clearly that this is a project that could also fail if we are not very careful. so in that sense i am very far from being self-congratulatory. i think we have quite a number of issues we need to solve. indeed i believe eco—design makes a huge contribution to solving some of our issues and to getting our economy to where it is going to be completely sustainable and therefore very competitive in a world, in this fourth industrial revolution, which is changing very quickly to a sustainable economy. the quicker we do that and the more we invest in that, the better we will come out of this, also in terms of employment and competitiveness. of course, the issue of migration will be first and foremost on our minds in the year to come. that is beyond any doubt but, there again, everybody needs to accept their responsibility. this is somewhere where we cannot have a european union of à la carte solidarity. if we have a problem that is faced by the union as a whole, every single member state will have to take their share of the responsibility in solving the problem. that is the gist of the proposals the commission, in close collaboration with your parliament, has made and will be continuing to make. and there i like the phrase ‘protection without protectionism’, which is something i think could be the core of what we need to do. europeans want more protection. they want to regain control of their destinies. that was the core of the debate during the brexit campaign. that is what we see in every single member state and we, with the limited possibilities we have, based on the competences we derive from the treaty, should offer some solutions for the protection people are looking for. that is, i believe, the gist of the commission work programme.
in writing. – after repeated calls from parliament that the commission has so far ignored, it is a welcome development that the commission’s 2017 work programme includes the commitment that the scope for eu level action to protect whistle—blowers will be assessed this coming year. in our crisis-stricken societies, the credibility of democracy is of utmost importance. while more than three out of every four eu citizens think that corruption is widespread in their country, and while the eu proclaims of itself that it wants to lead the world in liberties and justice, we cannot drag our feet any longer when it comes to protecting those who speak up at high personal risk to protect the public interest. whistle—blowing is an essential tool for maintaining accountability and integrity in both public and private sectors. that society owes protection and support to whistle—blowers has been recognised by soft law instruments adopted by international organisations to which most eu countries are parties. yet, the protection of whistle—blowers throughout the eu is very uneven and scarce. there has been no shortage of pledges in recent years to change this situation. now it is time for action. it is high time the commission presented a legislative proposal!
it's a two-card draw. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have a very quick question: are you against talking about more money? the question of the european union's own resources, do you think it is more money or something else?
in writing. the european parliament expresses its position on two budgetary issues. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the use of the euro as the single currency. in this case, despite the unanimous protest of the mps of the hungarian left parties, the meps voted against the interests of the country, and with their decision in support of forced resettlement, they attacked all hungarian citizens in the back. meps from hungary's left-wing parties voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal to support forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse to do so. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a fiscal review and an eu budget that does not even include these sanctions at the level of ideas. in the review, the european commission proposes an increase of eur 12.8 billion. this is partly a new resource, but more of the budgetary room for manoeuvre and the draining of reserves that exists in the framework. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in the event of a crisis. we can only support any proposal if we have adequate guarantees that there will be sufficient funds in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes and agricultural subsidies that are already in place.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – madam president, the perspective of the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) on the budget is overwhelmingly focused on aspects of governance, as you would expect. more support for the europe for citizens programme was one aspect of this. it is or should be common ground that the citizens of europe are and feel themselves to be remote from the institutions of the eu. this is regrettable, given that the eu exercises considerable power in the citizen’s name. more information, better communication, fostering participation, are steps in the right direction. e-government is another area that demands attention as part of the digital agenda. an online eu citizenship offers considerable promise in enhancing civic activism and identification, not least with regard to the younger age cohorts. so overall, the financing of these activities can generate positive outcomes in european governance.
it's a two-card draw. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you are right to call for economic cooperation between member states, but what is the magical reason why the european union is not able to make progress on one of its most important policies, taxation? we are leaving behind a distortion of competition in the system which is almost the essence of this entire european semester. do you see any chance of moving forward with tax harmonization?
madam president, my dear officer. in the digital age, it is essential that information and online services, in particular in the public sector, are accessible and secured for all. i'd say they're insured for access. unfortunately, there are about 80 million eu citizens who cannot enjoy this benefit, who cannot enjoy the benefits of the digital society, and i would say that they will be at a cumulative disadvantage from not being able to enjoy these benefits. we should have a goal to make it available to everyone. and to talk in 2016 about how there are people who are not able to enjoy these benefits -- i think that's a very urgent task. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur and i am sorry that it took so long to complete this report and that we have included it among the tasks that have been completed rather than the tasks that still need to be solved. but there are other tasks. i know we've made a good step and we're taking this step in the right direction, but sometimes you have to see that there's not enough hardware, software, professionals who are able to help these people. there are still tasks that we have to do. i think that's the next step.
in writing. i am pleased to note that today marks the end of four years of work and, in line with my report adopted by the european parliament on 25 october 2011, innovative and knowledge-based economies can no longer be achieved without content and forms that are accessible to people with disabilities and that are introduced by binding legislation. as a reminder, the european commission originally put forward a much more limited proposal, which we in parliament have considerably expanded. in addition to the public sector services originally proposed, the scope now covers a wide range of public services. the accessibility requirements will apply not only to websites but also to mobile applications, as the use of standards is also required by law. finally, the representative bodies of people with disabilities are involved in the implementation, which takes a good two years, about 21 months. the work is not over: the audiovisual package and the european accessibility act are on their way.
in writing. there is a strong body of scientific evidence to support the harmful effects of industrially produced trans fats. excessive consumption of these foods not only increases the risk of cardiovascular disease but is also associated with morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes. mandatory labelling, voluntary industry commitments do not in themselves provide sufficient protection for consumers. the european commission's report published in december 2015 reached similar conclusions: the most effective means of prevention could be to regulate the content of industrial trans fats. hungary was among the first to regulate the maximum acceptable levels of trans-fatty acids in food by regulation, following denmark and austria in 2014. the regulation states that no food may be placed on the market if the amount of trans-fatty acids in 100 grams of total fat exceeds 2 grams. the hungarian example has since been followed by latvia. following the introduction of the mandatory legislation, the percentage of foods containing trans-fatty acids above the legal limit has decreased significantly in the short period of time in the countries concerned, with significant public health benefits. it is noteworthy that the food industry recognising its social responsibility is playing an increasing role in reducing trans fats. taking advantage of the consensus situation, it is therefore important that the european commission proposes union maximum levels for these artificial fats as soon as possible. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the resolution.
madam president, please. the eu summit's main conclusions are on migration. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. these are positive findings, the question is whether they will be put into practice. there is one issue on which the council does not admit failure: it is the mandatory resettlement quota, which has practically failed, but which the council nevertheless keeps on the agenda and would otherwise like to return to in december under the heading of responsibility and solidarity. i think the responsibility lies primarily with those who, as responsible leaders, sent a political message that is irresponsible and that has brought millions of economic migrants to europe instead of 10,000 refugees.
madam president, please. for two years, there has not been a european union summit that didn't leave the table with the migration issue on the agenda. this problem has been going on for two years, and they're unable to find a solution. a response that could be a common european response. finally, it was stated that the protection of the schengen borders was a priority. they finally said that european law must be respected. finally, they said that the problem should not be imported into the european union, but should be solved on the spot. i'd say progress has been made. all that's left is for them to say that the mandatory quota response they've come up with is not the answer to anything. in hungary, 98% of respondents said they could not accept this. i can only represent the opinion of 3.3 million people who have said no to this solution. you don't have to push it. instead, we should have been talking more about what our common policies are, about the importance of investment policy. that we won't have investors if we can't respond to the migration crisis. the emphasis in the council meeting is shifting, as if we should not be talking about converging the economic and social situation of the member states, or we should be talking about development. but it is at least as much a problem if we do not listen to the voices of the national parliaments and the citizens.
madam president, the previous speaker spoke of hungary, and i have a place here to continue this line of thought. if you were in hungary right now and were a simple hungarian citizen watching the hungarian press coverage of the latest european council meeting, you would read that prime minister viktor orbán had knocked the heads of government of the other member states, the participants in the european council in general, to the ground, and that he had heroically prevented the european commission, in particular its president, mr jean-claude juncker, from installing a city-wide terrorist in hungary. now, this is the interpretation of the european council meeting by the member states, at least in english. i think that in order to counterbalance this kind of wild thinking, we need a much greater effort on the part of the council, the commission and parliament to explain to the european citizens what is happening, why it is happening and how it is happening.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that the ep's report on the 2017 eu budget refers to the parliament's report on the revision of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted in the july plenary vote. in this case, despite the unanimous protest of the mps of the hungarian people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country, and with their decision on forced resettlement, they attacked all hungarian citizens in the back. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of the european parliament's proposal for forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse to do so. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. as the text of the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 refers to the ep report calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas in july, i abstained from the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ according to the draft resolution of the committee on budgets, the 2017 budget fully reflects the political priorities of parliament's resolutions of 9 march 2016 on the general guidelines and of 6 july 2016 on the revision of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020. notes that the union is currently facing a number of serious emergencies that could not have been foreseen at the time of the establishment of the mff 2014-2020 and expresses its conviction that increased financial resources from the union budget should be mobilised as a matter of urgency and as a matter of priority in order to be able to respond to the political challenges and to enable the union to respond and react effectively to these crises; it takes the view that the 2017 budget should be able to meet the needs related to the migration challenge and the slow economic growth caused by the economic crisis and points out that funding for research and infrastructure projects and the fight against youth unemployment should be increased. it is convinced that the eu budget must find ways to finance new initiatives without undermining existing eu programmes and policies. on this basis, it proposes that all the reductions proposed by the council in the draft budget be reinstated. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 budget should be considered in the wider context of the mid-term review of the mff. the balance between long-term priorities and new challenges requires that the 2017 budget be consistent with the europe 2020 strategy, which sets out the broad lines of the budget and its overall priorities.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 budget of the european union is defined by the seven-year financial framework. this amount decreased in real terms by 4.5% compared with the previous cycle, including 8.4% for the cohesion funds, which are the most important for us. as a consequence, the gap between the countries of the centre and the periphery will continue to grow next year, and this is unacceptable. the eu's neoliberal economic policy is implemented through the fiscal stability treaty, economic governance and the euro plus pact, which are based on the adoption and maintenance of austerity measures for both the union and the member states, and which are deepening the current economic and social crisis, especially in the most disadvantaged countries. on these grounds, i rejected the budget proposal.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that the ep's report on the 2017 eu budget refers to the parliament's report on the revision of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted in the july plenary vote. this raises the prospect of penalties for member states that reject the quota system. fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. as the text of the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 refers to the ep report calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas in july, i abstained from the final vote on the report.
in writing. it is regrettable that the ep's report on the 2017 eu budget refers to the parliament's report on the revision of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted in the july plenary vote. in this case, despite the unanimous protest of the mps of the hungarian people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country, and with their decision on forced resettlement, they attacked all hungarian citizens in the back. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of the european parliament's proposal for forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse to do so. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. as the text of the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 refers to the ep report calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas in july, i abstained from the final vote on the report.
in writing. it is regrettable that the ep's report on the 2017 eu budget refers to the parliament's report on the revision of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted in the july plenary vote. in this case, despite the unanimous protest of the mps of the hungarian people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country, and with their decision on forced resettlement, they attacked all hungarian citizens in the back. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of the european parliament's proposal for forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse to do so. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. as the text of the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 refers to the ep report calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas in july, i abstained from the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that the ep's report on the 2017 eu budget refers to the parliament's report on the revision of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted in the july plenary vote. in this case, despite the unanimous opposition of the mps of the people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of the european parliament's proposal for forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse to do so. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. as the text of the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 refers to the ep report calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas in july, i abstained from the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that the ep's report on the 2017 eu budget refers to the parliament's report on the revision of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted in the july plenary vote. in this case, despite the unanimous protest of the mps of the hungarian people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country, and with their decision on forced resettlement, they attacked all hungarian citizens in the back. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of the european parliament's proposal for forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse to do so. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. as the text of the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 refers to the ep report calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas in july, i abstained from the final vote on the report.
in writing. there are a number of concerns about the budget, on the one hand that the original budgetary appropriations proposed by the commission will be difficult to meet, and on the other hand that the union is currently facing a number of serious emergencies that could not have been foreseen when the mff 2014-2020 was drawn up. regardless, the report is largely accurate, factual. increasing funding for research and infrastructure projects and for the fight against youth unemployment is also needed if we are to break the downward spiral. unfortunately, the rigid neoliberal economic approach is not equipped to offer real solutions to structural and societal challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, and i share the same doubts as to whether the ceiling of chapter 4 (global europe) would be sufficient to adequately finance the external dimension of the challenges of asylum and migration. i agree with the report that unforeseen events affecting the whole union should be dealt with by pooling resources and providing additional means rather than by questioning past commitments or by returning to purely national solutions. i also welcome the alignment of the 2017 budget with the europe 2020 strategy and i also urge that further funding for the fight against youth unemployment be ensured. i also share the rapporteur's regret that the council has cut its budgetary allocation to key themes in a number of cases: the reductions envisaged in the areas of culture, the media, eu citizenship, fundamental rights and public health are particularly damaging in the present circumstances. i therefore support the restoration of these appropriations to the level of the draft budget.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 budget should be considered in the wider context of the mid-term review of the mff. the balance between long-term priorities and new challenges should be struck and the 2017 budget should therefore be consistent with the europe 2020 strategy, which sets out the broad lines of the budget and its overall priorities. i was very much in favour of the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution concerns the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. stresses the european parliament's continuing concern that the resources available under the current multiannual financial framework are insufficient; the roadmap has been shaped by a number of new crises and priorities in recent years, namely the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the agricultural crisis, european fund for strategic investments funding and persistently high unemployment. it considers that the revision of the multiannual financial framework provides a unique opportunity to overcome the budgetary difficulties currently threatening the credibility of the european union. calls on the council to take its responsibility, put its words into action and ensure a realistic, credible, comprehensive and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current financial framework; i agree with the arguments and therefore with the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the ep's motion is in line with the parliament's report on the review of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted at the july plenary session. in this, despite the unanimous opposition of hungarian mps, they supported forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refused. at the same time, fidesz meps will only approve a financial framework review and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. in the review, the european commission proposes an increase of eur 12.8 billion. at the same time, the liquidity crisis created during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented, must be avoided. we can only support any proposal if we have the appropriate guarantees: there will be sufficient funds in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes and agricultural subsidies already in place. the text of the motion for a resolution confirms the ep report calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas in july, and i therefore did not support the adoption of the motion.
in writing. the ep's motion is in line with the parliament's report on the review of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted at the july plenary session. despite the unanimous protest of the representatives of the people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country, attacking all hungarian citizens in the back with their decision on forced resettlement. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse it. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. in the review, the european commission proposes an increase of eur 12.8 billion. at the same time, the liquidity crisis created during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented, must be avoided. we can only support any proposal if we have the appropriate guarantees: there will be sufficient funds in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes and agricultural subsidies already in place. the text of the motion for a resolution confirms the ep report in july calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas, and i therefore rejected the motion.
in writing. the ep's motion is in line with the parliament's report on the review of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted at the july plenary session. despite the unanimous protest of the representatives of the people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country, attacking all hungarian citizens in the back with their decision on forced resettlement. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse it. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. in the review, the european commission proposes an increase of eur 12.8 billion. at the same time, the liquidity crisis created during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented, must be avoided. we can only support any proposal if we have the appropriate guarantees: there will be sufficient funds in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes and agricultural subsidies already in place. the text of the motion for a resolution confirms the ep report in july calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas, and i therefore rejected the motion.
in writing. ‒ the ep's motion is in line with the parliament's report on the review of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted at the july plenary session. despite the unanimous opposition of the mps of the people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse it. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. the text of the motion for a resolution confirms the ep report in july calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas, and i therefore rejected the motion.
in writing. ‒ the ep's motion is in line with the parliament's report on the review of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted at the july plenary session. despite the unanimous protest of the representatives of the people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country, attacking all hungarian citizens in the back with their decision on forced resettlement. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse it. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. in the review, the european commission proposes an increase of eur 12.8 billion. at the same time, the liquidity crisis created during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented, must be avoided. we can only support any proposal if we have the appropriate guarantees: there will be sufficient funds in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes and agricultural subsidies already in place. the text of the motion for a resolution confirms the ep report in july calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas, and i therefore rejected the motion.
in writing. ‒ the ep's motion is in line with the parliament's report on the review of the financial framework for 2014-2020 adopted at the july plenary session. despite the unanimous protest of the representatives of the people's party, the meps of the hungarian left-wing parties voted against the interests of the country, attacking all hungarian citizens in the back with their decision on forced resettlement. the hungarian left-wing parties' meps voted with a firm and proud vote in favour of forced resettlement and harsh financial sanctions against countries that refuse it. the overwhelming majority of hungarian voters, however, have a clear position: they said no to forced resettlement. therefore, fidesz meps will only approve a revision of the financial framework and an eu budget that does not even include these penalties at the level of ideas. in the review, the european commission proposes an increase of eur 12.8 billion. at the same time, the liquidity crisis created during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented, should be avoided. we can only support any proposal if we have the appropriate guarantees: there will be sufficient funds in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes and agricultural subsidies already in place. the text of the motion for a resolution confirms the ep report in july calling for financial penalties against member states that do not accept mandatory quotas, and i therefore rejected the motion.
in writing. in assessing the budgetary report, i indicated that a mid-term review of the mff 2014-2020 was warranted, given the unforeseen emergencies that have developed in the union. these include the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the agricultural crisis, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and persistently high levels of unemployment. i fully agree with the report, because it is an unacceptable attitude that rich member states, which derive all their profits from their companies, are unwilling to contribute even 1% of their gdp to solving such major problems. it is very timely that the council should lead not only in fine words but also in deeds.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on budgets highlights a number of new crises and priorities that have emerged in recent years, namely the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the agricultural crisis, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments and the persistently high level of unemployment, especially among young people, as well as the recent ratification by the union of the agreement on climate change. in this context, the european parliament reiterates its constant concern that the resources available under the current multiannual financial framework are insufficient. stresses that a significant additional amount of resources from the union budget is needed to respond adequately to these challenges; recalls in this context that article 311 tfeu provides that 'the union shall provide itself with the means necessary to attain its objectives and carry out its policies'. it is convinced that the revision of the mff provides a unique opportunity to overcome the budgetary difficulties currently threatening the credibility of the european union. it also points out that in order to restore confidence in the european project, a union budget that is more transparent and accessible to citizens is needed. proposes therefore to call on the council to assume its responsibility and to ensure a realistic, credible, comprehensive and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current financial framework; i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the insufficient resources available under the mff. they agree that new crises and priorities have emerged in recent times, such as the refugee issue, external emergencies and internal security issues, the crisis in agriculture, persistently high unemployment and climate policy challenges. in the light of all this and taking into account the conclusions of the review carried out in the first half of the financial cycle, i believe that the possibility of adding additional resources should be examined. only in this way can political commitments and the eu's strategic objectives meet and the credibility of the european union be preserved. i agree that this cannot be achieved by simply redistributing resources, because that would be at the expense of existing programmes and policies. the proposal specifically calls for the cuts in the budget made at the launch of the european structural and investment funds to be reinstated in the second half of the financial cycle, as these cuts have significantly affected horizon 2020 and the european network development fund. the commission also calls for an increase in the amounts of the chapters on migration and the refugee crisis. i also agree with the proposal and the plan to simplify financial instruments initiated by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the mff provides a unique opportunity to overcome the budgetary difficulties currently threatening the credibility of the european union. i voted for the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. estonia has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals. the commission has examined the application and found that it complies with the requirements of the relevant regulation, and i have therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. estonia has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under reference number egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals. the measures are expected to involve 800 of the 1 550 redundant workers eligible for egf assistance. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions set out in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and that estonia is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 131 358 under that regulation for the following personalised services: financing of training costs in the framework of support for school-based studies, reimbursement of training costs to employers, labour market training, traineeships, debt management counselling, psychological counselling, study grants for school-based studies, scholarships, transport and housing allowances and language training. these measures have been developed in accordance with the needs identified in the estonian regional development strategy and are in line with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. estonia has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under reference number egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals. the measures are expected to involve 800 of the 1 550 redundant workers eligible for egf assistance. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions set out in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and that estonia is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 131 358 under that regulation for the following personalised services: financing of training costs in the framework of support for school-based studies, reimbursement of training costs to employers, labour market training, traineeships, debt management counselling, psychological counselling, study grants for school-based studies, scholarships, transport and housing allowances and language training. these measures have been developed in accordance with the needs identified in the estonian regional development strategy and are in line with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ estonia has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under reference number egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals. the measures are expected to involve 800 of the 1 550 redundant workers eligible for egf assistance. the european parliament agrees that estonia is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 131 358 under the egf regulation for the following personalised services: financing of training costs in the framework of support for school-based studies, reimbursement of training costs to employers, labour market training, traineeships, debt management counselling, psychological counselling, study grants for school-based studies, scholarships, transport and housing allowances for estonian language training. these measures have been developed in accordance with the needs identified in the estonian regional development strategy and are in line with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ estonia has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under reference number egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals. the measures are expected to involve 800 of the 1 550 redundant workers eligible for egf assistance. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions set out in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and that estonia is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 131 358 under that regulation for the following personalised services: financing of training costs in the framework of support for school-based studies, reimbursement of training costs to employers, labour market training, traineeships, debt management counselling, psychological counselling, study grants for school-based studies, scholarships, transport and housing allowances and language training. these measures have been developed in accordance with the needs identified in the estonian regional development strategy and are in line with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ estonia has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under reference number egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals. the measures are expected to involve 800 of the 1 550 redundant workers eligible for egf assistance. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions set out in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and that estonia is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 131 358 under that regulation for personalised services: financing of training costs in the framework of support for school-based studies, reimbursement of training costs to employers, labour market training, traineeships, debt management counselling, psychological counselling, study grants for school-based studies, scholarships, transport and housing allowances and language training. these measures have been developed in accordance with the needs identified in the estonian regional development strategy and are in line with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy.
in writing. unfortunately, 1,550 people are being made redundant in the petrochemical and coke sectors in estonia and it is therefore appropriate to award the egf a grant of eur 1,9 million to cover around 60% of the costs incurred, as estonia is one of the least developed countries. i would like to note two things, firstly, it is largely due to the faulty industrial policy of the eu that china has been able to break through in these sectors, and secondly, as stated in yesterday's report, the eu is now going to support ukraine in boosting the petrochemical industry and coke production to create new competition for eu companies.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 11 may 2016, estonia submitted to the commission an application to mobilise the fund, in respect of redundancies in estonia in the companies eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as. the measures affect around 800 of the 1550 redundancies, as they are intended to target redundancies considered particularly vulnerable from a labour market perspective and some workers have stated that they cannot participate in the measures. the following personalised services are intended to be provided to the dismissed employees: financing of training costs in the framework of support for studies in the school system, reimbursement of training costs to employers, labour market training, internship, debt management counselling, psychological counselling, study grant for continuing studies in the school system, scholarship, transport and housing allowance for estonian language training. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the fund and that the planned measures constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities and has therefore submitted to the parliament and the council a proposal for a financial contribution from the fund of eur 1 131 358. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the european parliament has already stressed in the kosa report adopted on 25 october 2011 that innovative and knowledge-based economies cannot be developed without the content and forms of mandatory legislation that are accessible to people with disabilities. such services include smartphone applications and information tools used in the mass media to facilitate the daily lives of people with disabilities, as well as websites accessible to the blind, subtitled content for the hearing impaired including mass communication services and online services for sign language users. it is therefore a great achievement that gradually, fully accessible websites will be made available not only to public sector organisations but also to public-service organisations, in order to enable disabled people to live independently as defined by the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to participate in all aspects of life in society. in order to ensure social inclusion, it is therefore necessary to make the websites of public sector organisations, as well as those providing basic services to the public, such as those relating to pensions, health, education, social and key document services, or information and services provided by interest groups, accessible to all people, as far as is technologically possible and reasonable. the involvement of representatives and experts from the organisations concerned is also an important success. so it was clear that i had voted to support the passage of the legislation.
in writing. as you know, the european parliament has already stressed in the kosa report adopted on 25 october 2011 that innovative and knowledge-based economies cannot be developed without the content and forms of accessible content for people with disabilities introduced by mandatory legislation. such services include smartphone applications and information tools used in the mass media to facilitate the daily lives of people with disabilities, as well as websites accessible to the blind, subtitled content for the hearing impaired including mass communication services and online services for sign language users. it is therefore a great achievement that gradually, fully accessible websites will be made available not only to public sector organisations but also to public-service organisations, in order to enable disabled people to live independently as defined by the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to participate in all aspects of life in society. in order to ensure social inclusion, it is therefore necessary to make the websites of public sector organisations, as well as those providing basic services to the public, such as those relating to pensions, health, education, social and key document services, or information and services provided by interest groups, accessible to all people, as far as is technologically possible and reasonable. the involvement of representatives and experts from the organisations concerned is also an important success. so it was clear that i had voted to support the passage of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the european parliament has already stressed in the kosa report adopted on 25 october 2011 that innovative and knowledge-based economies cannot be developed without the content and forms of mandatory legislation that are accessible to people with disabilities. it is therefore a great achievement that gradually, fully accessible websites will be made available not only to public sector organisations but also to public-service organisations, in order to enable disabled people to live independently as defined by the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to participate in all aspects of life in society. in order to ensure social inclusion, it is therefore necessary to make the websites of public sector organisations, as well as those providing basic services to the public, such as those relating to pensions, health, education, social and key document services, or information and services provided by interest groups, accessible to all people, as far as is technologically possible and reasonable. the involvement of representatives and experts from the organisations concerned is also an important success. that's why i voted to pass the legislation.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the european parliament has already stressed in the kosa report adopted on 25 october 2011 that innovative and knowledge-based economies cannot be developed without the content and forms of mandatory legislation that are accessible to people with disabilities. such services include smartphone applications and information tools used in the mass media to facilitate the daily lives of people with disabilities, as well as websites accessible to the blind, subtitled content for the hearing impaired including mass communication services and online services for sign language users. it is therefore a great achievement that gradually, fully accessible websites will be made available not only to public sector organisations but also to public-service organisations, in order to enable disabled people to live independently as defined by the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to participate in all aspects of life in society. in order to ensure social inclusion, it is therefore necessary to make the websites of public sector organisations, as well as those providing basic services to the public, such as those relating to pensions, health, education, social and key document services, or information and services provided by interest groups, accessible to all people, as far as is technologically possible and reasonable. the involvement of representatives and experts from the organisations concerned is also an important success. so it was clear that i had voted to support the passage of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the european parliament has already stressed in the kosa report adopted on 25 october 2011 that innovative and knowledge-based economies cannot be developed without the content and forms of mandatory legislation that are accessible to people with disabilities. these include smartphone applications and information forms used in the mass media to facilitate the daily lives of people with disabilities, as well as websites accessible to the blind, subtitled content for the hearing impaired including mass communication services and online services for sign language users. it is therefore a great achievement that gradually, fully accessible websites will be made available not only to public sector organisations but also to public-service organisations, in order to enable disabled people to live independently as defined by the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to participate in all aspects of life in society. in order to ensure social inclusion, it is therefore necessary to make public sector bodies' websites, as well as websites providing basic services to the public, such as those relating to public procurement, health, education, social and key document services, and information and services provided by interest groups, accessible to all people, as far as is technologically possible and reasonable. the important success is that the implementation process already involves the representatives and experts of the organisations concerned.
in writing. ‒ as you know, in my report adopted by the european parliament on 25 october 2011, i stressed that innovative and knowledge-based economies cannot be developed without the content and forms of mandatory legislation that are accessible to people with disabilities. such services include smartphone applications and information tools used in the mass media to facilitate the daily lives of people with disabilities, as well as websites accessible to the blind, subtitled content for the hearing impaired including mass communication services and online services for sign language users. therefore, it is a great achievement that progressively, fully accessible websites not only of public sector organisations but also of public-service organisations can be made available, in order to enable persons with disabilities to live independently, as defined in the relevant un convention, and to participate in all aspects of life in society. in order to ensure social inclusion, it is therefore necessary to make the websites of public sector organisations, as well as those providing basic services to the public, such as those relating to public procurement, health, education, social and key documentation services, or information and services provided by interest groups, accessible to all people, as far as is technologically possible and reasonable. the involvement of representatives and experts from the organisations concerned is also an important success. so it was clear that i had voted to pass the legislation.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. following the subsequent consultations, the council also adopted its position at first reading and the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection recommends that parliament agree to it at second reading. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the european parliament already stressed in the kosa report adopted on 25 october 2011 that innovative and knowledge-based economies cannot be developed without the content and forms of mandatory legislation that are accessible to people with disabilities. such services include smartphone applications and information tools used in the mass media to facilitate the daily lives of people with disabilities, as well as websites accessible to the blind, subtitled content for the hearing impaired including mass communication services and online services for sign language users. it is therefore a great achievement that gradually, fully accessible websites will be made available not only to public sector organisations but also to public-service organisations, in order to enable disabled people to live independently as defined by the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to participate in all aspects of life in society. in order to ensure social inclusion, it is therefore necessary to make the websites of public sector organisations, as well as those providing basic services to the public, such as those relating to pensions, health, education, social and key document services, or information and services provided by interest groups, accessible to all people, as far as is technologically possible and reasonable. the involvement of representatives and experts from the organisations concerned is also an important success. so it was clear that i had voted to support the passage of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the opening of websites at second reading. the recommendation relates to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications. the report clearly targets the disabled, but the draft also includes the elderly. with a few exceptions, the draft requires all public administrations to make their websites and mobile applications accessible. all of this helps people who are blind or visually impaired, deaf or hard of hearing, or who have limited mobility. the involvement of public service broadcasters was discussed during the drafting of the recommendation and the final agreement is that this area will be covered by a separate sector specific legislation. i believe that in the digital age, not only do we need to treat all citizens equally, but we also have the technical conditions for that when we talk about access to information. i share the view that this directive is an important step towards an inclusive digital society, ensuring that public authorities' websites and mobile applications are accessible to all.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a council position at first reading on the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications, which is part of the ordinary legislative procedure, was supported by me.
in writing. ‒ the draft phytosanitary regulation, based on the political agreement between the european parliament and the council, was designed primarily to simplify and harmonise. in addition to the inclusion of a large number of legislative acts (mostly directives) in a single framework, the fight against pests has required greater emphasis on the prevention principle, a more reasonable prioritisation of pests, the strengthening of scientific research and the fair sharing of costs and responsibilities. the final text is in line with hungarian national interests. i therefore voted against the attempt by one of the parliamentary groups to block the adoption of the text.
in writing. ‒ the draft phytosanitary regulation, based on the political agreement between the european parliament and the council, was designed primarily to simplify and harmonise. in addition to the inclusion of a large number of legislative acts (mostly directives) in a single framework, the fight against plant pests requires greater emphasis on the prevention principle, a more reasonable prioritisation of pests, the strengthening of scientific research and a fair sharing of costs and responsibilities. the final text is in line with hungarian national interests. i therefore voted against the attempt by one of the parliamentary groups to block the adoption of the text.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council to adopt a regulation on protection measures against pests of plants, amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 and repealing directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 15 april 2014. the austrian federal council submitted a reasoned opinion that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. following the subsequent consultations, the council adopted its position at first reading and the committee on agriculture and rural development recommends in its report that parliament should agree to it at second reading. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ in may 2013, the european commission proposed new rules on plant pest control measures. the regulation includes new tools such as a system of risk analysis criteria that group these pests according to their most serious consequences. it also places a greater emphasis on high-risk commercial products from third countries and allows for better monitoring and early eradication of emerging pests. the need for a closer european action in the field of plant health is also a concern, and i therefore voted against the liberal recommendation rejecting the agreement. the key factor of plant health is the attraction of sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry, and through these, public health. the socialist and democratic group is committed to guaranteeing the highest level of security and is a major supporter of the precautionary import regime. the new rules allow temporary bans on products that pose a risk of new pests or are suspected of posing a health risk. it also requires that organisations importing plants or plant products, including those traded via the internet, carry a phytosanitary certificate and introduces a plant passport system for plants purchased for planting.
in writing. ‒ the term 'european semester' is a typical eu linguistic invention to hide the point. in fact, it is a semiannual process whose essence and purpose is to adopt centrally the basic data and economic and social objectives that will determine the budget of the member states for the following year, to enforce the achievement of the union's objectives. this is a practical way of drastically restricting the sovereign national parliaments from independently carrying out one of their most important tasks, namely the creation of budgetary law. the economic and social policies formulated in the context of the european semester are neoliberal, austerity-oriented, federalist and anti-democratic. the report submitted was entirely consistent with this view, so i naturally rejected it.
in writing. ‒ in connection with the report, i would like to emphasise that youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent times, but this figure remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. i would like to emphasise the importance of digital skills, entrepreneurship and soft skills. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of the single market is not being realised at present. the union should support member states to significantly increase cross-border trade and to act urgently to make better use of digital technologies. i voted in favour of this report and i myself believe that the highest level of political oversight should be restored, the transposition and implementation of eu rules should be harmonised and more effective means should be developed to ensure that the single market really benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. a number of proposals for amendments to the report, which are eligible for support, highlight the fundamental problems of the eu's economic philosophy. i have to stress many times that the roots of the problems are systemic, that the particular neoliberal economic philosophy has not offered any real solutions, and it will not. until now, it was expected that the necessary changes would be brought about by market forces, whereas the state's role was to keep the budget deficit in check and to ensure the freedom of the markets. i'm telling you, it's not gonna work this way. of course, if the goal is not sustainable development and a union of livable member states, then the path may be good.
in writing. ‒ the report of the economic and monetary committee outlines the main developments in economic developments expected for 2016: low growth, investment deficit, high unemployment, especially among young people, negative inflation. notes that the europe 2020 strategy, which for the first time included the fight against poverty in the union's programme, will not achieve the objective of reducing poverty in the union; it concludes, in general, that the eu's capacity for growth must be improved, allowing for the creation and maintenance of quality jobs. action against excessive taxation of labour. it attaches particular importance to inclusive education systems, particularly in vocational education, which enable people to acquire skills relevant to the needs of the labour market, and stresses the importance of research and development and the renewal of education systems and vocational training, in particular lifelong learning. it aims to close the innovation gap between the eu and other economies, with a focus on research and development spending. it concludes that public and private support for research and higher education institutions is essential to a more competitive european economy and that the weakness or absence of such infrastructure places some countries at a significant disadvantage. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination. i welcome the fact that the report refers repeatedly to the importance of solidarity within the union and recalls that socially responsible reforms must be based on solidarity, integration, social justice and the fair distribution of goods. i agree with the report's policy call to avoid taxing work excessively, as excessive taxation reduces the incentives for inactive people, the unemployed, second-time workers and low-wage earners to return to the labour market. like the report, i welcome the fact that the european semester now focuses more strongly on employment and social performance, all the more so as the european semester process should contribute to addressing existing and emerging societal challenges, thereby also ensuring the emergence of a more efficient economy. i fully support the report's call for member states to urgently take action to ensure that decent work is accompanied by a living wage and that people have access to an adequate minimum income and social protection. it would also be useful for the commission to include social impact assessments in the country-specific recommendations to better understand the impact of the major structural reforms advocated, in particular on job creation and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ the european union economy is expected to grow less than expected in the european economic outlook for spring 2016, as euro area gdp is expected to grow by only 1.6% and reach 1.8% by 2017, which is lower than previously estimated. in the european union, challenges are linked to the deteriorating international environment, the failure to implement sustainable reforms and the divergence in economic and social performance across the union. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ there is a significant body of scientific evidence on the harmful effects of industrially produced trans fats. excessive consumption of these foods not only increases the risk of cardiovascular disease but is also associated with morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes. mandatory labelling, voluntary industry commitments do not in themselves provide sufficient protection for consumers. the european commission's report published in december 2015 reached similar conclusions: the most effective means of prevention could be to regulate the content of industrial trans fats. hungary was among the first to regulate the maximum acceptable levels of trans fats in food by regulation, following denmark and austria in 2014. the regulation states that no food may be placed on the market if the amount of trans-fatty acids in 100 grams of total fat exceeds 2 grams. the hungarian example has since been followed by latvia. following the introduction of the mandatory legislation, the percentage of foods containing trans-fatty acids above the legal limit has decreased significantly in the short period of time in the countries concerned, with significant public health benefits. on these grounds, i voted in favour of adopting the resolution.
in writing. ‒ there is a significant body of scientific evidence on the harmful effects of industrially produced trans fats. excessive consumption of these foods not only increases the risk of cardiovascular disease but is also associated with morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes. mandatory labelling, voluntary industry commitments do not in themselves provide sufficient protection for consumers. the european commission's report published in december 2015 reached similar conclusions: the most effective means of prevention could be to regulate the content of industrial trans fats. hungary was among the first to regulate the maximum acceptable levels of trans fats in food by regulation, following denmark and austria in 2014. the regulation states that no food may be placed on the market if the amount of trans-fatty acids in 100 grams of total fat exceeds 2 grams. the hungarian example has since been followed by latvia. following the introduction of the mandatory legislation, the percentage of foods containing trans-fatty acids above the legal limit has decreased significantly in the short period of time in the countries concerned, with significant public health benefits. it is noteworthy that the food industry recognising its social responsibility is playing an increasing role in reducing trans fats. taking advantage of the consensus situation, it is therefore important that the european commission proposes union maximum levels for these artificial fats as soon as possible. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. there is a strong body of scientific evidence to support the harmful effects of industrially produced trans fats. excessive consumption of these foods not only increases the risk of cardiovascular disease but is also associated with morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes. mandatory labelling, voluntary industry commitments do not in themselves provide sufficient protection for consumers. the european commission's report published in december 2015 reached similar conclusions: the most effective means of prevention could be to regulate the content of industrial trans fats. hungary was among the first to regulate the maximum acceptable levels of trans fats in food by regulation, following denmark and austria in 2014. the regulation states that no food may be placed on the market if the amount of trans-fatty acids in 100 grams of total fat exceeds 2 grams. the hungarian example has since been followed by latvia. following the introduction of the mandatory legislation, the percentage of foods containing trans-fatty acids above the legal limit has decreased significantly in the short period of time in the countries concerned, with significant public health benefits. it is noteworthy that the food industry recognising its social responsibility is playing an increasing role in reducing trans fats. taking advantage of the consensus situation, it is therefore important that the european commission proposes union maximum levels for these artificial fats as soon as possible. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ there is a significant body of scientific evidence on the harmful effects of industrially produced trans fats. excessive consumption of these foods not only increases the risk of cardiovascular disease but is also associated with morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes. mandatory labelling, voluntary industry commitments do not in themselves provide sufficient protection for consumers. the european commission's report published in december 2015 reached similar conclusions: the most effective means of prevention could be to regulate the content of industrial trans fats. hungary was among the first to regulate the maximum acceptable levels of trans fats in food by regulation, following denmark and austria in 2014. the regulation states that no food may be placed on the market if the amount of trans-fatty acids in 100 grams of total fat exceeds 2 grams. the hungarian example has since been followed by latvia. following the introduction of the mandatory legislation, the percentage of foods containing trans-fatty acids above the legal limit has decreased significantly in the short period of time in the countries concerned, with significant public health benefits. it is noteworthy that the food industry recognising its social responsibility is playing an increasing role in reducing trans fats. taking advantage of the consensus situation, it is therefore important that the european commission proposes union maximum levels for these artificial fats as soon as possible. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ there is a significant body of scientific evidence on the harmful effects of industrially produced trans fats. excessive consumption of these foods not only increases the risk of cardiovascular disease but is also associated with morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes. mandatory labelling, voluntary industry commitments do not in themselves provide sufficient protection for consumers. the european commission's report published in december 2015 reached similar conclusions: the most effective means of prevention could be to regulate the content of industrial trans fats. hungary was among the first to regulate the maximum acceptable levels of trans-fatty acids in food by regulation, following denmark and austria in 2014. the regulation states that no food may be placed on the market if the amount of trans-fatty acids in 100 grams of total fat exceeds 2 grams. the hungarian example has since been followed by latvia. following the introduction of the mandatory legislation, the percentage of foods containing trans-fatty acids above the legal limit has decreased significantly in the short period of time in the countries concerned, with significant public health benefits. it is noteworthy that the food industry, recognizing its social responsibility, is playing an increasingly important role in reducing trans fats. taking advantage of the consensus situation, it is therefore important that the european commission proposes union maximum levels for these artificial fats as soon as possible. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ there is a significant body of scientific evidence on the harmful effects of industrially produced trans fats. excessive consumption of these foods not only increases the risk of cardiovascular disease but is also associated with morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes. mandatory labelling, voluntary industry commitments do not in themselves provide sufficient protection for consumers. the european commission's report published in december 2015 reached similar conclusions: the most effective means of prevention could be to regulate the content of industrial trans fats. hungary was among the first to regulate the maximum acceptable levels of trans fats in food by regulation, following denmark and austria in 2014. the regulation states that no food may be placed on the market if the amount of trans-fatty acids in 100 grams of total fat exceeds 2 grams. the hungarian example has since been followed by latvia. following the introduction of the mandatory legislation, the percentage of foods containing trans-fatty acids above the legal limit has decreased significantly in the short period of time in the countries concerned, with significant public health benefits. it is noteworthy that the food industry recognising its social responsibility is playing an increasing role in reducing trans fats. taking advantage of the consensus situation, it is therefore important that the european commission proposes union maximum levels for these artificial fats as soon as possible.
in writing. the european parliament, with the support of the green group (586 votes in favour, 19 against and 38 abstentions), voted in favour of the resolution on trans-fatty acids, in which we call on the european commission to set a legal eu limit value for the use of industrial trans-fatty acids as soon as possible, as further steps are needed to protect human health. the commission has already carried out a number of studies on trans-acids and international organisations have demonstrated that their high consumption poses a risk to human health. industrially produced foods and beverages contain high levels of trans-fatty acids, mainly from low-cost raw materials and industrially produced foods. excessive consumption of trans fats can cause obesity, increase the risk of certain cancers, and cardiovascular disease. the european union has a duty to act against their excessive use. the issue of adequate consumer information remains unresolved, but it is even more important to introduce european-level regulation beyond the individual measures of the member states.
in writing. ‒ there is a significant body of scientific evidence on the harmful effects of industrially produced trans fats. excessive consumption of these foods not only increases the risk of cardiovascular disease but is also associated with morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes. mandatory labelling, voluntary industry commitments do not in themselves provide sufficient protection for consumers. the european commission's report published in december 2015 reached similar conclusions: the most effective means of prevention could be to regulate the content of industrial trans fats. hungary was among the first to regulate the maximum acceptable levels of trans-fatty acids in food by regulation, following denmark and austria in 2014. the regulation states that no food may be placed on the market if the amount of trans-fatty acids in 100 grams of total fat exceeds 2 grams. the hungarian example has since been followed by latvia. following the introduction of the mandatory legislation, the percentage of foods containing trans-fatty acids above the legal limit has decreased significantly in the short period of time in the countries concerned, with significant public health benefits. it is noteworthy that the food industry, recognizing its social responsibility, is playing an increasingly important role in reducing trans fats. taking advantage of the consensus situation, it is therefore important that the european commission proposes union maximum levels for these artificial fats as soon as possible. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety takes the view that trans-fatty acids are consumed mainly in the form of industrially produced, partly hydrogenated vegetable oils modified by the addition of hydrogen atoms. now both the european food safety authority, the who, and the us food and drug administration are calling for a reduction in the consumption of trans fats, recognizing their health risks. the draft therefore urges eu action to significantly reduce the intake of trans-fatty acids by the population, asking the commission to set a legal eu limit value for industrial trans-fatty acids as soon as possible. notes that according to who, a labelling policy for trans fats is the most costly solution, while in countries where a ban on trans fats has been introduced, the financial impact has been minimal, given the low implementation and control costs; i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ there is a significant body of scientific evidence on the harmful effects of industrially produced trans fats. excessive consumption of these foods not only increases the risk of cardiovascular disease but is also associated with morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes. mandatory labelling, voluntary industry commitments do not in themselves provide sufficient protection for consumers. the european commission's report published in december 2015 reached similar conclusions: the most effective means of prevention could be to regulate the content of industrial trans fats. hungary was among the first to regulate the maximum acceptable levels of trans fats in food by regulation, following denmark and austria in 2014. the regulation states that no food may be placed on the market if the amount of trans-fatty acids in 100 grams of total fat exceeds 2 grams. the hungarian example has since been followed by latvia. following the introduction of the mandatory legislation, the percentage of foods containing trans-fatty acids above the legal limit has decreased significantly in the short period of time in the countries concerned, with significant public health benefits. it is noteworthy that the food industry recognising its social responsibility is playing an increasing role in reducing trans fats. taking advantage of the consensus situation, it is therefore important that the european commission proposes union maximum levels for these artificial fats as soon as possible. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ trans-fatty acids are unsaturated fatty acids that have been used by the food industry since the 1950s in foods derived from ruminants, such as dairy and meat products, as well as in products of plant origin (porridge, peas, lettuce and canola oil), and in industrially produced, partly hydrogenated, products prepared for cooking on the stove and in the oven. according to who, naturally occurring trans fats are unlikely to pose a health risk in current diets due to their relatively low intake. however, frequent consumption of partially hydrogenated vegetable oils carries an increased risk of diseases (cardiovascular disease, infertility, endometriosis, gonorrhoea, alzheimer's disease, diabetes, obesity and certain cancers) and efsa recommends that the consumption of trans fats should be kept as low as possible. the motion for a resolution reiterates its concern about the risks of trans-fatty acids to human health and describes that the restriction of trans-fatty acids has been shown to have rapid and significant health benefits. it therefore calls on the commission to set a legal eu limit for industrial trans-fatty acids as soon as possible in order to reduce the intake of trans-fatty acids by all groups of the population. since these fatty acids are not necessary in processed foods and are even unhealthy, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ analysis of the latest available data confirms that despite the reduction in the amount of trans-fatty acids in certain foods, there are still a number of foods on certain eu food markets that contain high levels of trans-fatty acids. i supported the s&d position on the question.
my fellow members of parliament, the honourable vice-president. allow me to pay my respects to the newly elected president of the european court of auditors, our distinguished former colleague. ladies and gentlemen, it is a particularly sad fact for me that the trust of european citizens in the european union and its institutions is declining. in this context, it is even more regrettable that the various eu institutions - those who want to strengthen their powers at the expense of the member states, those who are in favour of a purely federalist approach - are using a different approach to defaming pro-european parties, rather than dealing with those who reject all forms of european cooperation. the loss of confidence is also evidently compounded by the union's opaque bureaucracy. part of this bureaucracy is the budgetary management, which can be difficult to understand. the european court of auditors reports that the total amount of the union's budgetary expenditure in 2015 was eur 145 billion. this means that each european citizen spends 78 euro cents a day on the union. we can decide if it's too much or too little. in the context of cohesion policy, i would like to draw attention to the serious risks of using so-called other financial instruments in favour of grants. this makes the issue of control of eu funds more difficult.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. we agree that it is very important that the commission and the court of auditors have brought their accounting methodologies very close together and that this has resulted in more realistic error rates. but i'm asking you if you see a mechanism whereby the numbers generated in each year can be interpreted for the entire financial cycle, so that there is no big problem if one year the error rate is better, the next year it is less good, but then it is still good overall.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for this opportunity, madam president. mr. representative, i have to ask you to leave. you were right, you were right, to say that these children need special care and special treatment. but there's a distinctive feature here, which is that most of the kids are teenagers, and they're 15, 16, 17 years old. they're suddenly 18 years old, and they're under a whole new set of rules. and yet, this is the same man who's only been here in europe for a year or two. how do you propose to cross this threshold with these special rules? the age of 18, because after that, you're an adult.
in writing. every child deserves safety and protection, and we must stand up for their rights at all times! among minors, migrant children on their way to europe are the most at risk of harassment and exploitation and the earliest victims of trafficking. it is therefore very important to help children by improving the living conditions in camps close to their home countries, thus avoiding the risk of their lives and the numerous dangers they face on their way to europe. one of the most important elements of this is ensuring access to good education, which is essential for the healthy development of children, but also for the future of their own communities whole generations cannot be left out of education. providing education and employment in these camps helps to prevent young people from becoming radicalized. hungary is therefore also supporting the provision of education in refugee camps in lebanon, jordan and iraq, and is pushing for the construction of a hospital.
madam president, this may sound strange in this parliament, and it sounds very strange, but there is a situation, there is a situation, and there is a chance, there is a chance for the iraqis and there is a chance for europe to finally act in time. and that's why this report was important. i want to make two specific points in the spirit of listening to the locals, not making things up. a few rooms away is nevroz mad rudd amin, the kurdish minister of local government. we had just stopped talking half an hour ago, and he said the following: identity and security. there is a terrible risk of hundreds of thousands of people leaving the area unchecked, and we don't know how this is going to play out. it's about water now, it's about blankets now, it's about education later, the minister said just 20 minutes ago or 30 minutes ago. a few hours ago, i spoke with archbishop irkiz of kirkuk, iraq. for years, he has cared for hundreds of thousands of members of the church and internally displaced persons as a result of the local church war. what did he say? three things: first, we need to rebuild health care, which is a disaster. we have the financial and technical capacity to do that. on the other hand, there is an urgent need to start rebuilding homes and infrastructure. and third, we need to organize education so that young people can see a vision for the future. he said that on the phone a few hours ago from kirkuk. build on the locals and finally do nothing without them.
i would like to thank mr lars adaktusson for having initiated the european parliament's resolution on the situation and future of ethnic and religious minorities in northern iraq. we have a religious, moral and political duty to act in defense of the indigenous christians, yazidis, turkmens and other minorities in the nineveh plains, who are threatened by the very existence of the mosul region. only by joining forces can the international and european communities put an end to the mass murder and genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity in the region. saving iraqi christianity, which has dwindled from 1.5 million to about 300,000, is a priority. the main priority is to resettle displaced christians and other minorities in their homelands, in the face of further escalating migration. i welcome and consider it exemplary that the hungarian government has established an independent office of secretary of state on ... (the president interrupted the member).
thank you very much, congressman. he spoke so quickly that the interpreters had a difficult task, but what he said was undoubtedly very important, as is what is happening in italy now. thank you to these volunteers.
six motions for resolutions were tabled. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, october 27, 2016, at noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the report 'a short summary of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015' presented by andrea bocskor on behalf of the committee on culture and education (2015/2351 (ini)) (a8-0250/2016)
the rapporteur. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. first of all, i'd like to thank all my fellow mps, the shadow rapporteurs, the advisers, my colleagues and everyone who has contributed to the report. the economic crisis has affected young people in a very sensitive way, with long-term consequences. youth unemployment has risen, the gap between certain groups of young people has widened, and some of them have become increasingly excluded from social life. many of them had uncertain futures and social passivity was on the rise. young people are one of europe's greatest resources, the key to its future. the european union and the member states should therefore not ignore the potential of the creativity, creativity and knowledge of europe's 90 million young people. analysis of the statistical data for the past period shows that there are positive trends in education and employment indicators, although the indicators still show wide variations when measured in some member states. in the light of these results, we need to continue to look for better solutions to the new challenges facing young people, and it is very important that more systematic cooperation is needed across a number of policy areas, including employment, education and training, social policy, youth policy, sport, culture and other areas. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but the current figure remains a cause for great concern. for example, that almost 27 million young people are at risk of poverty. the poverty rate, the need for part-time work and the temporary work that often lasts longer are higher among young people than among the general population, indicating a low quality of life for this generation. therefore, encouraging job creation and youth employment should be an important priority. the risk of inactivity, poverty and social marginalisation affects young people in different ways. for those who have fewer opportunities in life or live in less developed regions, disadvantages often accumulate. they are more likely to be 'neet' young people, so it is very important to have catch-up programmes, social and talent development programmes to overcome these disadvantages and to have a wide awareness of the opportunities available. in this context, the support for mother tongue education for national minorities should be emphasised, as this is an important priority in the report and in line with the opinion of the committee of the regions on the same subject. europe also needs to mobilise young people urgently because of the ageing of its population: well-informed family and youth policies, home-building grants and family tax breaks can be of great help. some countries have recognised this and the indicators have started to improve, such as hungary, but we still have work to do in this area. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, school, sport and religious communities in the socialisation of young people, as well as the importance of involving local and regional authorities in youth policy. knowledge, skill, is still the greatest value. the unemployment rate for graduates is still lower than for those without qualifications. it is therefore important to improve the quality of education and to better and more effectively align it with the needs of the labour market. we need to better align school and education with the world of work to give young people a better chance of entering the labour market. increase the dominance of digital and applied sciences, and improve digital and other skills. recognition of skills acquired through informal, non-formal and lifelong learning, and cross-border mutual recognition of academic degrees and higher qualifications in the european labour market are very important.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, 27 october 2016, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. i welcome the report on the evaluation of the european union youth strategy. we have many interesting and important issues in this parliament, but i think i am not alone in considering youth and family policy as one of the most important. if we don't support the new generations, then all our other activities in this house are for its own sake, because there will be no one to continue the work that has begun, no one to carry on the legacy. if we cannot ensure that we have the right number of children, who are getting the right quality of education and upbringing, then there will be no one to take over our jobs when our generation takes over. i think that encouraging childbearing is one of the most important tasks, and one of the greatest challenges of our time. we must encourage family formation and make it clear that having children is not a compulsory duty but a natural part of life. i would like to highlight another important theme in the report, the fight against youth unemployment. we must not let young people lose their motivation early in their careers. we need to support young workers by all means possible.
the next item is the report by mr eric andrieu, drawn up on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on 'how can the cap help to create jobs in rural areas? the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, 27 october 2016, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. i am strongly opposed to any attempt to cover, on a voluntary or compulsory basis, the management of crisis situations caused by social and demographic changes from the budgetary resources of the cap. it is of the utmost importance to me that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. that is why i will not be able to support the andrieu report, along with my hungarian colleagues from the people's party. i have to do this despite the fact that the text proposes a strong and adequately funded common agricultural policy, an objective which is fully in line with the interests of hungarian farmers. however, the draft report also contains provisions which directly jeopardise the future financing of the cap. paragraphs 21 and 77 of the report and recital ai suggest that agricultural resources should also be used to support social and demographic projects. it is of the utmost importance to us that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. we cannot therefore allow the management of crises caused by social and demographic change to be covered by direct payments or rural development funds, either on a voluntary or compulsory basis. the financing of social issues has no place in the common agricultural policy and, therefore, union support for the most deprived persons was excluded from this policy in 2013. unfortunately, the same proposal was also mentioned in the omnibus package of proposals, the proposed amendment to the eu legislation which forms the backbone of the structural funds and the cap. we will stand up here to defend the common agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ the draft decision submitted to parliament by the committee on budgetary control proposes that parliament refuse to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the attached motion for a resolution justifies this by stating that the european council and the council refuse to cooperate with parliament as necessary for effective budgetary control; they do not submit their annual activity reports to parliament and that only three of the twenty-seven questions put to the council by the members of the committee on budgetary control in respect of the financial year 2014 have been clearly answered in the documents submitted by the council in the context of the discharge procedure. parliament is therefore not in a position to take an informed decision on granting the discharge, just as it was not in a position to take an informed decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report rejecting the discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. like the report, i regret that the european council and the council do not submit their annual activity reports to parliament. this is unacceptable and damages the reputation of the eu institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the common fisheries policy, the common fisheries policy and the common fisheries policy. i urge the council to remedy the shortcomings identified in the report, in particular with regard to the replies given to parliament. i also look forward to receiving information from the council on the progress of the modernisation of its administration, in particular on the expected impact on the council's budget.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking was wound up in june following the council regulation of 6 may 2014 merging the ecsel joint undertaking with the artemis joint undertaking. on 28 april this year, parliament decided to postpone its decision on the discharge because of the problems involved. in its second report, the committee on budgetary control proposes that parliament give its consent to the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which gives a discharge to the executive director of the european nanoelectronics initiative advisory board (ecsel) joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i also urge that the observations contained in the attached resolution on budgetary and financial management be taken into account, as in the report.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was wound up in june following the council regulation of 6 may 2014 merging the ecsel joint undertaking with the eniac joint undertaking. on 28 april this year, parliament decided to postpone its decision on the discharge because of the problems involved. in its second report, the committee on budgetary control proposes that parliament give its consent to the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, which approves the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, in addition to the discharge to the executive director of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors welcomes the fact that the accounts of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 are in all material respects in conformity with the provisions of its financial regulation and reflect the financial position as at 26 june 2014 in accordance with the rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. i also share the concern expressed in the report that the joint undertaking has not taken steps with regard to internal control standards for information and financial reporting.
in writing. ‒ the ep postponed its decision on the discharge to the director of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. in its second report, the committee on budgetary control now proposes that parliament give its consent to the closure of the accounts of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter for the financial year 2014. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the discharge for the 2014 financial year of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter (established in 2007 for a period of 35 years), i.e. the approval of the use of its financial resources, was postponed by the european parliament in april 2016 as the long-awaited and long-delayed iter action plan was not presented at that time. in the meantime, this material has been prepared and the rapporteur proposes in this second report to grant the exemption. the commission considers that the exemption is not necessary to ensure that the beneficiary is able to continue to benefit from the aid. joint undertakings bring together industrial and research organisations (mainly in the form of ppps) in order to facilitate research, new technologies and demonstration activities, and to accelerate the uptake of the technology concerned. in this case, this training covers a number of areas, such as air traffic control, low-carbon energy, nano and cleaner flight technologies, computing, and nuclear fusion. i agree with the socialist and democratic approach that it is worth supporting joint ventures that guarantee clear benefits to eu citizens, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on all parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law during and after hostilities and to adhere to the principles of proportionality, discrimination and precaution during conflict. it urges all parties to the conflict to open humanitarian corridors for civilians fleeing the conflict, avoiding their being trapped in mosul and used as human shields by isis/daesh. ensure access to security and humanitarian assistance, and provide support and protection to the civilian population during security screening, in particular to prevent the separation of families and the endangerment of children, in accordance with national and international standards, and establish a un monitoring mechanism involving third parties. it called in particular for all precautions to be taken to ensure that children and their families are not harmed by bombing, that the number of victims is kept to a minimum and that civilian infrastructure, especially schools and hospitals, is protected. in the light of the above, i have voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the ecr, efdd, s&d, gue/ngl, alde, ppe and verts/ale groups. of the seven groups, the first six reached an agreement and drafted a joint compromise proposal. i voted for the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i am convinced that the european union cannot remain silent in the face of the worsening international war situation and humanitarian crisis in the region bordering europe. the report recalls the intolerable security and humanitarian situation in northern iraq, particularly in the wake of the siege of mosul, the consequences of jihadist terror, genocide, and the systematic persecution of yazidis, christians and other religious and ethnic minorities. i hope that our strong parliamentary resolution will encourage the eeas and the eu member states, and the union as a whole, to take more decisive and concrete action as a global actor.
in writing. ‒ the turkish government has the right and responsibility to respond to the coup attempt. i would like to stress, however, that the failed military takeover cannot be used as an excuse by the turkish government to further suppress the legitimate and peaceful opposition and to impede the peaceful exercise of freedom of expression by journalists and the media through disproportionate and unlawful actions and measures. i would like to remind you that a free and pluralistic press is an essential element of democracy, as are due process, the presumption of innocence and the independence of the judiciary. the turkish authorities should deal with the media and journalists in the most sensitive manner possible. freedom of expression and freedom of the press remain central to the functioning of a democratic and open society. in the light of the above, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. turkey was already considered one of the worst-ranked countries in terms of press and media freedom before the failed coup attempt. since the coup, the situation has deteriorated significantly. thousands of people were imprisoned and fired from their jobs. in a resolution adopted by a large majority, parliament called on the turkish government to drop the unfounded charges against journalists and to abandon the conceptual proceedings against writers and journalists. the eu institutions and its member states must take consistent action to ensure that the union's partners, in particular those countries with close links to the eu, also uphold the fundamental principles of human rights and democracy. the union can only do this consistently if it continuously and appropriately safeguards these fundamental values within its borders.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution on this subject was tabled by the enf, efdd, s&d, ecr, gue/ngl, alde, ppe and verts/ale groups. of the eight groups, the latter seven reached an agreement and drafted a joint compromise proposal. i voted for the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, expressing my view that it is unacceptable that the erdogan government, under the pretext of the recent coup attempt, is using an anti-terrorism law that provides for too broad and vague powers of the authorities to severely restrict press freedom, imprison journalists, and close down editorial offices and organs. the decision draws attention to the fact that one of the most important of the fundamental values of the european union is the freedom of the press, the guarantee of the diversity of the press and the safety of its staff, which is particularly expected to be respected by a significant partner and candidate country such as turkey. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in turkey is a welcome step forward in the fight against terrorism. however, as a representative of the hungarian opposition and a democrat, i cannot ignore the current parallel with the situation in hungary, where the regime - with more subtle means - also severely restricts the freedom of the press, prosecutes or takes into its own hands an editorial office critical of the government that exposes the corruption of its leaders (népszabadság case). with regard to the european parliament's current resolution, i am convinced that the eu's criticism of turkey cannot be effective and credible unless it takes a similarly strong stand against the orbán regime's restrictive measures on press freedom in one of its member states.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, the security situation worldwide has deteriorated, stability and predictability have been shaken, and the relationship between nato and russia has deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the nuclear security summit 2016, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, the security situation worldwide has deteriorated, stability and predictability have been shaken, and the relationship between nato and russia has deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the 2016 nuclear security summit, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, the security situation worldwide has deteriorated, stability and predictability have been shaken, and the relationship between nato and russia has deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the 2016 nuclear security summit, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, the security situation worldwide has deteriorated, stability and predictability have been shaken, and the relationship between nato and russia has deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the 2016 nuclear security summit, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution also calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, stability and predictability have been shaken around the world, and relations between nato and russia have deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the 2016 nuclear security summit, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, the security situation worldwide has deteriorated, stability and predictability have been shaken, and the relationship between nato and russia has deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the nuclear security summit 2016, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, the security situation worldwide has deteriorated, stability and predictability have been shaken, and the relationship between nato and russia has deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the nuclear security summit 2016, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, the security situation worldwide has deteriorated, stability and predictability have been shaken, and the relationship between nato and russia has deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the nuclear security summit 2016, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the groups of the ecr, the ppe, verts/ale, gue/ngl, efdd, s&d and alde. of the seven groups, the ppe, verts/ale, s&d and alde reached an agreement and drew up a joint compromise proposal. i voted for the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, the security situation worldwide has deteriorated, stability and predictability have been shaken, and the relationship between nato and russia has deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the 2016 nuclear security summit, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it reflects the growing concern of european public opinion about the potential dangers of the policies of certain nuclear-weapon states and their governments and the future of international security as a whole. as vice-chair of the ep delegation for ukraine and of the association committee, i am particularly sensitive to facts and doubts, supported by my own experience, concerning russia's regional and global ambitions. the destabilisation of ukraine by military means, the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula, the political threats to nato, and in particular to the baltic states, which are not devoid of nuclear elements, by the putin regime, represent a real and easily actionable threat in the eu's immediate eastern neighbourhood, which requires a firm and united eu response, including a comprehensive and concrete response from the eeas. the current ep decision, in my view, provides the appropriate political background and incentive for this and hopefully influences the governments of the member states towards a unified political action.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is primarily a response to the deteriorating security situation in the european union's neighbourhood. this could lead to a renewed nuclear weapons exercise as a deterrent. in addition, the failure to implement effective steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation poses additional risks. the resolution calls on the nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions and to take immediate action to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons. in addition, the motion expresses concern about the role and attitude of russia, which has significantly increased the nuclear threat. as a result, the security situation worldwide has deteriorated, stability and predictability have been shaken, and the relationship between nato and russia has deteriorated significantly. the proposal also supports the convening of the 2016 nuclear security summit, recognising that the unauthorised trade and use of nuclear materials represents a direct and serious threat to the security of the world.
in writing. ‒ in europe, nearly 100 million citizens of all ages are volunteers, and their work contributes to around 5% of the eu's gdp. the commission should take into account the economic value of the products and services provided by volunteers when formulating a policy that focuses more on volunteers. it is important that the european voluntary service is based on the provision of quality volunteer places and respects the principles of the volunteers' charter and the quality charter for student mobility. it is also necessary that the european voluntary service be based on a structure that encourages volunteering organisations to become host organisations, thereby providing them with appropriate support and training, while strengthening the role of coordinating organisations that support a large number of host organisations, for example in terms of administration and training. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the s&d, ppe, gue/ngl, alde, ecr and verts/ale groups. the six groups reached an agreement and worked out a joint compromise proposal. i voted for the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on volunteering and the european voluntary service, which i share the view that volunteering is one of the most visible expressions of solidarity, promoting social inclusion and contributing to the development of a well-functioning civil society and to economic growth. i also agree with the finding that a supportive environment plays a crucial role in ensuring that as many european citizens as possible participate in volunteering, thus guaranteeing a safe and sustainable support for the volunteering infrastructure, in particular for organisations employing volunteers. it is therefore necessary for member states to set up adequately funded national volunteering schemes and to improve access to quality information on volunteering opportunities at both national and local level, in particular through existing youth information networks.
in writing. ‒ my report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. youth policy is a member state competence, the european union's role is to coordinate and support. since no legislative action can be taken at eu level in this area, the eu youth strategy 2010-2018 adopted the so-called open method of coordination, whereby member states are free to decide whether to accept or incorporate recommendations made by the eu into their national youth strategies. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. my report highlights the importance of digital, entrepreneurial and soft skills. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children. my report emphasises the importance of the role of the family, the school, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, while also highlighting the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets, the guarantee of its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, schools, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, and highlights the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. the report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets, the guarantee of its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, schools, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, and highlights the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. the report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets, the guarantee of its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, schools, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, and highlights the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. ‒ the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets and a pledge for its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. a stable and good quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that families and children be encouraged. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, the school, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, but also highlights the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets, the guarantee of its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, schools, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, and highlights the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets, the guarantee of its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a major challenge and a major obstacle to independence. although youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, the problem remains unsolved. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe fell to 19.7% and this year, according to the latest data, it fell to 18.9% in 2016. a stable job and a safe environment are very important for building independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires an urgent need to encourage family formation and the desire to have children. the report emphasises the importance of the role of the family, school, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, while also highlighting the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets, the guarantee of its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, schools, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, and highlights the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets, the guarantee of its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, schools, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, and highlights the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on culture and education takes stock of the results of the latest three-year cycle of the eu youth strategy. the eu youth strategy 2010-2018 identifies eight areas of action: education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and well-being, participation, voluntary activities, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture. the two general priorities of the strategy are to facilitate the transition from school to work and to promote the active civic engagement, social inclusion and solidarity of young people. the report finds a wide gap between two groups of young people: those who are purposeful, studying, confident of finding a good job and participating in social, civic and cultural life, and those who have little hope of fulfillment and are at risk of marginalisation. this division threatens social cohesion and long-term sustainable economic growth. and europe, because of its ageing population, urgently needs to activate young people, to encourage responsible family life, to encourage child-rearing. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets, the guarantee of its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, schools, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, and highlights the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. the text makes a number of important calls to member states to make positive changes in the face of youth unemployment, poverty and other challenges. it is particularly welcome that the rapporteur mentions the specific problems affecting refugee and migrant youth, as well as young girls and women. at the same time, i think it is important to note that the hungarian ruling party, of which the rapporteur is a member, consistently ignores the values set out in the report: its education and employment policies make the future of generations impossible, and, instead of teaching european union knowledge and values, it makes it difficult for many to integrate into society with xenophobic, exclusionary messages. i therefore urge the rapporteur to start implementing the positive recommendations summarised in his report with great energy in his party's domestic policy.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the results of the eu youth strategy for the 2013-2015 cycle. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest assets, the guarantee of its future. the european union and its member states should therefore not ignore the potential that lies in the creativity, diversity, skills and abilities of europe's 90 million young people. for many young people, finding a stable and quality job is a challenge and a major obstacle to independence. youth unemployment has decreased in most member states in recent years, but remains a serious concern. in 2015, youth unemployment in europe decreased to 19,7%. the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel. a stable and high-quality job and a safe environment are very important for establishing independence and starting a responsible family. a good education and training system can provide the basis for all of this. europe's ageing population requires that young people be activated as a matter of urgency, and that they be encouraged to start families and to adopt children. the report stresses the importance of the role of the family, schools, religious communities and sport in the healthy development and socialisation of young people, and highlights the involvement of local and regional communities in youth policy.
in writing. ‒ it is of the utmost importance to me that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. i was forced to reject the andrieu report on the link between the common agricultural policy and job creation, together with my hungarian colleagues from the people's party. i did so despite the fact that the text proposes a strong and adequately funded common agricultural policy, an objective which is fully in line with the interests of hungarian farmers. however, the report also includes provisions which directly jeopardise the future financing of the cap. paragraphs 21 and 77 of the report suggest that agricultural resources should also be used to support social and demographic projects. it is of the utmost importance to us that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. we cannot therefore allow the management of crises caused by social and demographic change to be covered by direct payments or rural development funds, either on a voluntary or compulsory basis. the financing of social issues has no place in the common agricultural policy and, therefore, union support for the most deprived persons was excluded from this policy in 2013. unfortunately, the same proposal has also been included in the omnibus package of proposals for the proposed amendment of the eu legislation on the structural funds and the cap. here too, we will take consistent action to prevent the diversion of rural development funds from the structural funds and between them, even if it is voluntary.
in writing. it is of the utmost importance to me that the resources of the cap actually reach farmers. i was forced to reject the andrieu report on the link between the common agricultural policy and job creation, together with my hungarian colleagues from the people's party. i did so despite the fact that the text proposes a strong and adequately funded common agricultural policy, an objective which is fully in line with the interests of hungarian farmers. however, the report also includes provisions which directly jeopardise the future financing of the cap. paragraphs 21 and 77 of the report suggest that agricultural resources should also be used to support social and demographic projects. it is of the utmost importance to us that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. we cannot therefore allow the management of crises caused by social and demographic change to be covered by direct payments or rural development funds, either on a voluntary or compulsory basis. the financing of social issues has no place in the common agricultural policy and, therefore, union support for the most deprived persons was excluded from this policy in 2013. unfortunately, the same proposal has also been included in the omnibus package of proposals for the proposed amendment of the eu legislation on the structural funds and the cap. here too, we will take consistent action to prevent the diversion of rural development funds from the structural funds and between them, even if it is voluntary.
in writing. ‒ it is of the utmost importance to me that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. i was forced to reject the andrieu report on the link between the common agricultural policy and job creation, together with my hungarian colleagues from the people's party. i did so despite the fact that the text proposes a strong and adequately funded common agricultural policy, an objective which is fully in line with the interests of hungarian farmers. however, the report also includes provisions which directly jeopardise the future financing of the cap. paragraphs 21 and 77 of the report suggest that agricultural resources should also be used to support social and demographic projects. it is of the utmost importance to us that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. we cannot therefore allow the management of crises caused by social and demographic change to be covered by direct payments or rural development funds, either on a voluntary or compulsory basis. the financing of social issues has no place in the common agricultural policy and, therefore, union support for the most deprived persons was excluded from this policy in 2013. unfortunately, the same proposal has also been included in the omnibus package of proposals for the proposed amendment of the eu legislation on the structural funds and the cap. here too, we will take consistent action to prevent the diversion of rural development funds from the structural funds and between them, even if it is voluntary.
in writing. ‒ i was forced, together with my hungarian colleagues from the people's party, to reject the andrieu report on the link between the cap and job creation. i did so despite the fact that the text proposes a strong and adequately funded common agricultural policy, an objective which is fully in line with the interests of hungarian farmers. however, the report also includes provisions that would directly jeopardise the future financing of the cap. the report proposes that agricultural resources should also be used to support social and demographic projects. i believe that it is of the utmost importance that the cap resources actually reach farmers and that we cannot allow ourselves to cover, either on a voluntary or mandatory basis, the management of crisis situations caused by social and demographic changes from direct payments or rural development funds. the financing of social issues has no place in the common agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ it is of the utmost importance to me that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. i was forced to reject the andrieu report on the link between the common agricultural policy and job creation, together with my hungarian colleagues from the people's party. i did so despite the fact that the text proposes a strong and adequately funded common agricultural policy, an objective which is fully in line with the interests of hungarian farmers. however, the report also includes provisions which directly jeopardise the future financing of the cap. paragraphs 21 and 77 of the report suggest that agricultural resources should also be used to support social and demographic projects. it is of the utmost importance to us that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. we cannot therefore allow the management of crises caused by social and demographic change to be covered by direct payments or rural development funds, either on a voluntary or compulsory basis. the financing of social issues has no place in the common agricultural policy and, therefore, union support for the most deprived persons was excluded from this policy in 2013. unfortunately, the same proposal has also been included in the omnibus package of proposals for the proposed amendment of the eu legislation on the structural funds and the cap. here too, we will take consistent action to prevent the diversion of rural development funds from the structural funds and between them, even if it is voluntary.
in writing. ‒ i was forced, together with my hungarian colleagues from the people's party, to reject the andrieu report on the link between the common agricultural policy and job creation. i did so despite the fact that the text proposes a strong and adequately funded common agricultural policy, an objective which is fully in line with the interests of hungarian farmers. however, the report also includes provisions which directly jeopardise the future financing of the cap. paragraphs 21 and 77 of the report suggest that agricultural resources should also be used to support social and demographic projects. the hungarian people's party delegation considers it of paramount importance that the farmers actually receive the resources of the common agricultural policy. we cannot therefore allow the management of crises caused by social and demographic change to be covered by direct payments or rural development funds, either on a voluntary or compulsory basis. the financing of social issues has no place in the common agricultural policy and therefore union support for the most deprived persons was excluded from this policy in 2013. unfortunately, the same proposal has also been included in the omnibus package of proposals for the proposed amendment of the eu legislation on the structural funds and the cap. in this case too, we will consistently act to prevent the withdrawal of rural development funds from the structural funds and between them, even if it is voluntary.
in writing. ‒ it is of the utmost importance to me that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. i was forced to reject the andrieu report on the link between the common agricultural policy and job creation, together with my hungarian colleagues from the people's party. i did so despite the fact that the text proposes a strong and adequately funded common agricultural policy, an objective which is fully in line with the interests of hungarian farmers. however, the report also includes provisions which directly jeopardise the future financing of the cap. paragraphs 21 and 77 of the report suggest that agricultural resources should also be used to support social and demographic projects. it is of the utmost importance to us that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. we cannot therefore allow the management of crises caused by social and demographic change to be covered by direct payments or rural development funds, either on a voluntary or compulsory basis. the financing of social issues has no place in the common agricultural policy and, therefore, union support for the most deprived persons was excluded from this policy in 2013. unfortunately, the same proposal has also been included in the omnibus package of proposals for the proposed amendment of the eu legislation on the structural funds and the cap. here too, we will take consistent action to prevent the diversion of rural development funds from the structural funds and between them, even if it is voluntary.
in writing. ‒ the committee on agriculture and rural development reports that rural areas cover more than 77% of the eu's territory and that many jobs in these areas depend on agriculture and the agri-food sector. agriculture and agri-food account for 6% of eu gdp, representing 15 million businesses and 46 million jobs. it points out that the economic crisis has hit rural areas hardest, and that these areas have experienced unprecedented declines due to austerity policies. the report urges change in the light of the fact that in 2014, 13% of beneficiaries received 74% of the cap direct payments. as small farms are more labour-intensive and 53% of those employed on farms are classified as small farms, this is clearly not helping job creation within agricultural production. looking ahead, the report advocates modernisation and investment and attributes tourism an important role in solving rural problems. it is of the opinion that direct payments under the cap should be granted only to persons whose main activity is agriculture and that in future cap resources should provide more support to slow down the disappearance of small and medium-sized farms and enterprises which are concentrated in producer organisations. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that one of the main objectives of the cap is to create jobs in rural areas. unfortunately, we have seen a significant decline in employment in these areas over the past decades, particularly in the eastern and central european regions. this was despite the fact that a number of job-creating measures were introduced through the various funds. in my view, efficiency is hampered in some member states by blatant government corruption, and the resources devoted to job creation are not able to effectively change the situation. small farms' cooperatives should be supported, agricultural employment should be made attractive, and the interests of young people should be taken into account. the future of rural areas does not depend solely on agriculture, i agree that the range of activities of farms should be diversified in order to achieve sustainable business development and that young people and women should be involved as much as possible. providing basic services and connectivity can help to maintain the population and avoid depopulation. the direction we take can be defined at the guideline level at most, but real solutions need to be found in bottom-up initiatives. member states should introduce more targeted measures to create rural jobs, all with strong central control.
in writing. ‒ i was forced, together with my hungarian colleagues from the people's party, to reject the andrieu report on the link between the common agricultural policy and job creation. i did so despite the fact that the text proposes a strong and adequately funded common agricultural policy, an objective which is fully in line with the interests of hungarian farmers. however, the report also includes provisions which directly jeopardise the future financing of the cap. paragraphs 21 and 77 of the report suggest that agricultural resources should also be used to support social and demographic projects. it is of the utmost importance to us that the resources of the cap actually reach the farmers. we cannot therefore allow the management of crises caused by social and demographic change to be covered by direct payments or rural development funds, either on a voluntary or compulsory basis. the financing of social issues has no place in the common agricultural policy and, therefore, union support for the most deprived persons was excluded from this policy in 2013. unfortunately, the same proposal has also been included in the omnibus package of proposals for the proposed amendment of the eu legislation on the structural funds and the cap. here too, we will take consistent action to prevent the diversion of rural development funds from the structural funds and between them, even if it is voluntary.
in writing. according to a recent survey, 80% of hungarians would abolish the clock. although the survey is not representative, it does reflect the opinion of the people. most of them are in the dark about the time change twice a year, in spring and autumn. they don't understand why it's necessary. the majority of respondents to the survey mentioned imbalances and difficult transitions as their primary problem. now, a number of studies have shown that the economic reasons that were stated in the past are not necessarily relevant, and that we have to expect negative and unpleasant outcomes alongside the positive outcomes. for humans, the problem is the changeover to daylight saving time in early spring, as waking up earlier disrupts people's circadian rhythms, leading to fatigue and insomnia. the disruption caused by this changeover is also not negligible from a transport point of view. long-distance buses and trains lose an hour at the spring changeover while they wait an hour at the autumn restoration at the stations to adjust to the restored time. the safety aspect is also worth mentioning, since waking up earlier can lead to fatigue, increased inattention, and thus increased accidents. few provisions have such a unified citizen position. we can't ignore the majority opinion. i therefore ask the commission to review this provision in the light of the current economic, health and safety conditions.
mr president, human rights abuses must never go unnoticed by the eu, no matter if they occur within or outside of its borders. therefore we cannot let certain worrying political developments in malaysia pass without comment. howard lee, a malaysian assembly member and president of the international union of socialist youth, and other activists were taken into custody by the malaysian police for participating in a rally. they were arrested because they called for clean elections, clean government, the strengthening of parliamentary democracy and the right of dissent. although they have been released – just today – i would ask you, on behalf of the european parliament, to address this issue in the relevant fora so that it never happens again.
mr. president, györgy matolcsy would not be allowed to go near the national banks in any country in europe, only viktor orbán in hungary could become the president of the hungarian national bank. his rap sheet is very long, and let me just quote a few of them. billions of taxpayer dollars to launch an unorthodox economic education. he bought billions of monuments, castles and over-the-top office buildings with our money. your cousin's money is constantly coming in suspiciously from the pockets of the hungarian taxpayers. mr. matolcsy is trying to outsource the hungarian national bank's money to the foundations, saying that it would lose its character as public money. and the last we heard, he was hiring his own girlfriend for a million-dollar salary, and at the same time, he was living in the luxury apartment of a commercial bank manager in budapest. everything around george is rotten. they break the rules, they throw money around, they deliberately keep the forint weak and they delay the introduction of the euro. george matolcsy is not working to protect the money of the hungarian people. that's why i'm telling you, mr. draghi, that there should be no reports on this case, but that it's a clear violation of european rules, and in order to protect the money of the hungarian people, györgy matolcsy's filter should be removed immediately.
in writing. it is not right that european citizens do not feel safe within the eu. russian aggression, the threat of terrorism, the eu's common border guard and the lack of a european army reinforce this feeling. it is therefore not a diabolical idea that if the eu has a central budget, a common foreign policy - and the line is still long - then eu soldiers should protect our external borders, be responsible for the security of european citizens. the shock brexit vote and the decline of nato only reinforce this need for a european defence community. it is time for europe to take responsibility for its own security. with a common eu army, a european military headquarters, a rapid international response force, a defence council of defence ministers, europe can be a much more confident superpower. with a joint army, we can show aggressive neighbouring powers, like putin's russia in recent years, that we are serious about protecting the eu's values and borders. having an eu army means two things: the eu's voice will be much stronger on the international stage, and there will never be war between european nations.
in writing. the political and military necessity for the creation of a european defence union was created by the deteriorating security environment in the eu over the years, the threat from our southern and eastern neighbourhood, and new types of security challenges. i support a swift eu decision-making to this end, as the main purpose of establishing european defence autonomy is to take responsibility for the security of eu member states, especially in the face of the unbridled and unfounded threats of putin's russia following the example of the ukrainian aggression. the ep has an important role to play in building the necessary political will, because the eu's solidarity in defence cannot be relied on by national governments alone. the one-sided, selfish approach to solidarity, the neglect of the ability to defend oneself, has never prevented the leaders of some countries from taking the guarantees of their allies' defence for granted. there are also member states - such as hungary under the orbán regime - where existing defence capabilities are used for anti-democratic domestic policy purposes (mass control, policing, border barrier construction) that are contrary to eu values. we also expect the european defence union to protect our common european values and to preserve the union's prestige as an international standard-bearer of democracy and human rights. i therefore urge that, as soon as the preparation of the defence union is under way, appropriate political and legal safeguards be built into the system to prevent such unfair behaviour by member states.
in writing. water transport plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union in an environmentally friendly and more energy-efficient way, which can also include the use of new, innovative technologies such as solar and wind energy. i would stress that better use of available capacity for waterborne passenger transport can not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and overall provide better transport services. a form of transport can be developed which also benefits tourism, as it allows tourism to flourish along the waterway. it can also help boost the economy of a lesser-known region, create new jobs and create small businesses. it is very important to me that the majority of passengers on domestic shipping travel on ships that meet common eu safety standards. this requires appropriate training for staff, which is accepted throughout europe. i regard the importance of this report as a positive and i will support it with my vote.
madam president, i would like to welcome the agreement in principle on visa-free travel for ukraine, which i hope will be followed soon by a positive conclusion to the process. ukraine has been on the path of european integration for two years, and the education reform on the agenda, which would amend the article on the language of instruction in the education act to the detriment of national minorities, is a cause for concern. according to the draft law, students of a particular nationality would have the right to receive education in their mother tongue, along with the ukrainian language, only at the primary and secondary levels, and only in places where the national minority in question lives in a block. human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rights of national minorities are important elements of the eu-ukraine association agreement. the draft law thus contradicts international obligations, but also violates the constitutional rights of ukrainian national minorities. i hope that this non-european process, which represents a major setback in the practice of minority law, can be stopped and that ukraine will strive to become a state of law respecting its minorities.
madam president, a few weeks ago it was revealed that the family of hungarian prime minister viktor orbán is in business with an internationally wanted criminal, saudi billionaire ghaith pharaon. pharaon has been wanted by the fbi and interpol for many years for, among other things, supporting terrorism and illegal arms trafficking, but in hungary he is not in danger of arrest. not so much, since he recently bought a high-value piece of real estate in the immediate vicinity of the hungarian prime minister. he is less likely to be arrested because the hungarian authorities have granted him a european visa and residence permit despite the fact that he is under international search, and they did all this without even taking his fingerprints which would otherwise be mandatory under the law , so that it is not revealed later who was allowed to enter the country, and because of the european visa to the entire european union. this is a european scandal, because pharaon, this wanted international criminal, is not only in hungary, but because of his visa, he is able to move freely throughout the european union. since the hungarian authorities have failed to arrest this criminal, it will be up to the european authorities, europol, to apprehend the wanted criminal.
madam president, as the december anniversary of the 1989 temesvar uprising approaches, former high-ranking officials of the former and new romanian secret services are trying to discredit the anti-communist and anti-szekuritate romanian revolution in front of a wide audience on television, portraying it as a subversion and coup d'état with soviet and hungarian backgrounds aimed at tearing transylvania apart. i would like to draw the attention of the union and the european parliament to the fact that the greatest threat to romania's democratic transition is the power and influence which has been transferred to the securitate, the old and new secret service, which continues the national communist policy of ceausescu by using the tool of the chauvinist hungarian opposition to carry out its counter-revolutionary activities. let's defend the romanian revolution and the romanian-hungarian historical solidarity!
in writing. increasing competitiveness and economic development require investment incentives. the commission's investment plan envisaged the mobilisation of at least eur 315 billion of additional investment over three years and the restoration of investments to pre-crisis levels. while the commission is trying to prove the success of the european fund for strategic investments, i think it is important to stress that the fund also raises a number of problems. firstly, the audit powers of the eu institutions are reduced for all financial instruments, so-called financial resources outsourced from the eu budget, and the possible market-correcting effects are not known. on the other hand, the conditions and criteria for obtaining funds are much less transparent than in the other areas of implementation, which is further reinforced by the reference to bank notes. furthermore, the investment fund approach focuses strictly on the financial return of projects, ignoring broader or cross-cutting socio-economic policy considerations. i consider that improving the investment environment is essential to supporting european investment. we need to increase the predictability of the regulatory environment, expand and diversify funding sources, reduce administrative burdens and identify additional challenges that are the main impediments to a recovery in investment.
in writing. since the crisis, investment figures have shown a very different picture. unfortunately, during the discussion of the proposals for the semester, it became clear that investment continues to be hampered by both regulatory and non-regulatory challenges. it is therefore important to mention that identifying and addressing challenges to investment should be part of efforts to improve framework conditions, reduce administrative barriers and eliminate regulatory bottlenecks. i welcome the fact that the european commission has started to explore again in this cycle the policy areas and tools that can provide an overview of the main challenges that are holding back investment at national level. i also believe that the analysis of the challenges identified in the annual growth survey should be continued in the context of the european semester. i believe that it is time to re-launch dialogue with the member states - including in the form of thematic discussions in the council and in council committees - in order to identify these challenges and possible steps and measures to overcome them, otherwise the european semester process will not be able to fulfil the role we intended it to play when we created it.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. i very much agree with you when you say that we need integrated oversight, because i think that it's not just corporations or bad companies, bad advisors and bad banks that are involved in this, but - and i'm not going to use a label - it's tax authorities and often governments that are involved in this whole cycle of tax avoidance. and my question is, do you think this report is going to address this aspect, the negative role of tax authorities and governments?
in writing. money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. as a result, the subject has received a steady increase in professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving lawmakers a number of additional tasks and providing theoretical specialists with new research topics. this is the case with this innovative proposal, which i welcome and i am pleased that this report contains a series of measures to combat effectively money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims at approving a proposed operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine and provides for the exchange of information, including on personal data. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, information on the results of strategic analysis, investigative procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as the area of participation in training activities and the provision of advice and support for specific investigations. the present proposal serves the purpose of criminal cooperation against organised crime and terrorism, and it is therefore in the fundamental european and thus hungarian interest that the police authorities of the member states should have a greater chance of preventing and detecting crime in ukraine, which is known to be crossed by organised crime networks. however, the question arises whether, if the influence of organised crime reaches the level of government in a state, the exchange of information and operational information may not end up in the hands of organised criminal groups that need to be pursued. the guarantees for this are currently seen as being in place, and i therefore supported the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime and, more specifically, drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with ukraine, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime and, more specifically, drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with ukraine, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime and, more specifically, drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with ukraine, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime and, more specifically, drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with ukraine, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime and, more specifically, drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with ukraine, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime and, more specifically, drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with ukraine.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime and, more specifically, drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with ukraine, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime and, more specifically, drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with ukraine, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ukraine has more and more opportunities for development and even more needs. earlier, british scientists had suggested that one of the strongest european strongholds of organized crime was ukraine, which was preparing to join the eu. the proposal in question is aimed at criminal cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, which is of course of european interest. the fact that, according to the experts also mentioned, the interconnectedness between law enforcement and criminal structures is such that sensitive information can even fall into the hands of the unauthorized is somewhat clouding the picture. however, deeper integration sometimes comes with risks.
in writing. ‒ the council has drawn up a draft decision approving the conclusion by europol of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and the european police office (europol), including the exchange of personal data. the council shall consult parliament before adopting the draft. ukraine is a key partner of the european union in the eastern partnership and security and the fight against crime are essential obligations for the full achievement of the objectives of this partnership. according to europol, ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, and more specifically drug-related or economic crime, and trafficking and smuggling of human beings, as well as organised crime committed by mobile (migrant) criminal groups. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs therefore recommends in its report that parliament approve the council's draft. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime and, more specifically, drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with ukraine, and as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the council's draft agreement governing operational and strategic cooperation between the ukrainian authorities and europol. ukraine is a key eu partner in the eastern partnership and in the framework of the close cooperation under the partially already operational dcfta, which cannot be complete without exploiting the possibilities of cross-border law enforcement, especially given the long common border between the two sides. as vice-chair of the ep delegation for ukraine monitoring the implementation of the association agreement, i regularly face the significant efforts made by the ukrainian government and authorities to move closer to the eu legal order. i am convinced that the possibilities for cooperation between law enforcement and judicial authorities, opened up by the envisaged agreement between europol and ukraine, will contribute in a meaningful and direct way to the security of european citizens, in particular by fighting organised crime, including the smuggling of illegal goods, drugs and people, more effectively. i believe that the eu's forthcoming visa facilitation for ukrainian citizens makes it particularly timely to strengthen cooperation with the ukrainian authorities.
in writing. ‒ under the current council decision on europol, the council, after consulting the european parliament, is to authorise the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations. such an agreement may cover the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement shall also include the exchange of personal data. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the request for suspension of immunity of mr jalkh relates to the alleged commission of an offence of public incitement to racial, ethnic or religious discrimination by means of electronic communication. the complaint concerns statements in the brochure 'the front national's handbook for local government representatives' 'whose responsible publisher was jean-françois jalkh' 'concerning the encouragement of the front national's local government representatives to be elected in the elections of 23 and 30 march 2014 to propose that priority be given to the french people ('national priority') at the first meeting of the new local government representative bodies when allocating social housing. the previous proposal can of course be disagreed with, it can be rejected outright, but to regard the wording as inciting racial discrimination is, in my view, wrong and the committee responsible should have recommended that the right of immunity be maintained in order to ensure the unhindered work of the member. i voted against the motion which was the opposite.
in writing. ‒ the french association maison des potes maison de l'égalité has charged jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament, with the crime of public incitement to racial, ethnic or religious discrimination. the public prosecutor at the court of appeal in versailles requested the suspension of the member's immunity in connection with the related court proceedings. the complaint concerns statements in a brochure entitled 'the front national local government representatives' handbook' published on the front national website, and the director of publications for the front national was jean-françois jalkh, who exercised editorial control over all the websites of the front national. in its report, the committee on legal affairs points out that the allegations are clearly not against jean-françois jalkh's meps but only against his position as director of the front national, responsible for its publications and with editorial control over its websites, and that there is no suspicion that the investigation is aimed at obstructing the work of the mep. it therefore proposes that parliament suspend the immunity of mr jalkh. that's what i voted for.
in writing. ‒ the request for suspension of the immunity of mr jalkh relates to the alleged commission of an offence of public incitement to racial, ethnic or religious discrimination, committed against an unknown person by means of a communication to the public, whether oral, written, pictorial or electronic, which constitutes an offence under french law. i voted in favour of the group's position.
in writing. ‒ at the request of the french 'national bureau for the monitoring of anti-semitism' (bnvca), an investigation was opened against jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament, for public incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence before the paris district court. the public prosecutor at the paris court of appeal has requested, in the context of the investigation, the suspension of jean-françois jalkh's immunity. the complaint concerns statements made by jean-marie le pen in an interview published on the website 'frontnational.com' and the director of the front national's official website was jean-françois jalkh. the committee on legal affairs has concluded that the charges are clearly not against jean-françois jalkh's members of the european parliament but only against his position as director of the front national's publications and editorial controller of the association's websites and therefore proposes that the parliament suspend jean-françois jalkh's immunity. that's what i voted for.
in writing. ‒ the request for suspension of the immunity of mr jalkh relates to the alleged commission of the offence of public incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or group of persons on grounds of their origin or membership or non-membership of a particular ethnic group, nationality, race or religion, which is a criminal offence under french law. i voted in favour of the group's position.
in writing. ‒ i would like to draw attention to the fact that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, with significant environmental pressures from multiple sources, and that marine fish stocks are therefore at risk. it is understandable that the european union is forced to restrict sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. in view of the above, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i supported, together with my fidesz colleagues, the adoption without a vote of the dodds report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this step approved the final text of the legislation in the second reading agreement concluded by the ep and the council. the new legislation is necessary because the old fishing plan used a complex catch system. this has resulted in a decline in cod stocks in practice. the new rules provide more flexibility in terms of tacs and quotas and streamline the rules on the landing obligation. progress has also been made in tightening the return of unusable fish. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i supported, together with my fidesz colleagues, the adoption without a vote of the dodds report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this step approved the final text of the legislation in the second reading agreement concluded by the ep and the council. the new legislation is necessary because the old fishing plan used a complex catch system. this has resulted in a decline in cod stocks in practice. the new rules provide more flexibility in terms of tacs and quotas and streamline the rules on the landing obligation. progress has also been made in tightening the return of unusable fish. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i supported, together with my fidesz colleagues, the adoption of the dodds report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this step approved the final text of the legislation in the second reading agreement concluded by the ep and the council. the new rules are more flexible in terms of tacs and quotas and streamline the rules on the landing obligation, which is why i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption without a vote of the dodds report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this step approved the legislation finalised in the second reading agreement concluded by parliament and the council. the new legislation is necessary because the old fishing plan used a complex catch system which in practice led to the deterioration of cod stocks. the new rules provide more flexibility in terms of tacs and quotas and streamline the rules on the landing obligation. progress has also been made in tightening the return of unusable fish. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. the common fisheries policy should pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in many cases, closed-system algae lakes have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. overall, therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and the highest possible level of eu support.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i supported, together with my fidesz colleagues, the adoption without a vote of the dodds report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this step approved the final text of the legislation in the second reading agreement concluded by the ep and the council. the new legislation is necessary because the old fishing plan used a complex catch system. this has in practice led to a deterioration of cod stocks. the new rules provide more flexibility in terms of tacs and quotas and streamline the rules on the landing obligation. progress has also been made in tightening the return of unusable fish. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i supported, together with my fidesz colleagues, the adoption without a vote of the dodds report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this step approved the final text of the legislation in the second reading agreement concluded by the ep and the council. the new legislation is necessary because the old fishing plan used a complex catch system. this has resulted in a decline in cod stocks in practice. the new rules provide more flexibility in terms of tacs and quotas and streamline the rules on the landing obligation. progress has also been made in tightening the return of unusable fish. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union.
in writing. unfortunately, humanity has managed to pollute the seas to a great extent, but even so, under appropriate control, marine fish are a very important and healthy food source for the european consumers. fishing can only be carried out under regulated conditions in order to conserve fish stocks, as provided for in the previous council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 mentioned in the report, which should be updated to ensure that the biological balance in the north sea is maintained.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i supported, together with my fidesz colleagues, the adoption without a vote of the dodds report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this step approved the final text of the legislation in the second reading agreement concluded by the ep and the council. the new legislation is necessary because the old fishing plan used a complex catch system. this has resulted in a decline in cod stocks in practice. the new rules provide more flexibility in terms of tacs and quotas and streamline the rules on the landing obligation. progress has also been made in tightening the return of unusable fish. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to adapt and clarify the agreement establishing the principles of the common fisheries policy and supporting its implementation. the draft was blocked by both the european commission and the european parliament in the previous parliamentary term, as the european council had unilaterally adopted measures on fishing plans for european waters. this was followed by a ruling by the european court of justice, which found that the european council had erred in its allocation of the annual capital plan and in its unilateral adoption of part of it. in short, the council has bypassed the ep as a co-decision-making body in the area of fisheries policy. following the court's decision, the s&d group was actively involved in the development of the principles of the cap, such as the introduction of the precautionary principle instead of annual catch limits, supplemented by a system of fishing licences and fishing capacity. the draft regulation would also put an immediate end to the days-at-sea cod fishing practice, which is a major contributor to depletion. this material is fully in line with the reformed common fisheries policy, which will come into force on 1 january 2017, and will ensure legal certainty for fishermen.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i supported, together with my fidesz colleagues, the adoption without a vote of the dodds report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this step approved the final text of the legislation in the second reading agreement concluded by the ep and the council. the new legislation is necessary because the old fishing plan used a complex catch system. this has resulted in a decline in cod stocks in practice. the new rules provide more flexibility in terms of tacs and quotas and streamline the rules on the landing obligation. progress has also been made in tightening the return of unusable fish. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. it is therefore understandable that the european union is forced to restrict marine fisheries appropriately in order to maintain marine fish stocks. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union.
in writing. ‒ on 12 september 2012, the commission presented its proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 with a view to adapting and clarifying the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1342/2008. on 19 december 2012, the council adopted a regulation without incorporating all the provisions of the proposal for a regulation, with article 43 (3) tfeu as legal basis and adopting only the amendments to articles 9 and 12 of regulation (ec) no 1342/2008. i have followed the group's position on this matter with some hesitation.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance and is a follow-up to the 2011 council directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. the swissleaks, luxleaks, panama papers and bahamian leaks - which are unique examples of a global phenomenon - have highlighted the urgent need for greater tax transparency and much closer judicial coordination and cooperation. this directive emphasises that the commission should analyse the possible role of the banking system and financial services providers in facilitating money laundering. the union could intervene, with its increased powers in the financial and banking field, through a regulation on stricter controls and transparency of banking and financial transactions. i voted in favour of the action taken by the committee on anti-money laundering and tax evasion. however, the underlying reason is the financial liberalisation of the 1990s, which, if maintained, will always allow tax avoidance and money laundering, albeit to a lesser extent than before.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is between 2 and 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. as a result, the subject has received a steady increase in professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving lawmakers a number of additional tasks and providing theoretical specialists with new research topics. this is the case with this innovative proposal, which i welcome and i am pleased that this report contains a series of measures to combat effectively money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities. so that's the most important thing we have to do.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is between 2 and 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. as a result, the subject has received a steady increase in professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving lawmakers a number of additional tasks and providing theoretical specialists with new research topics. this is the case with this innovative proposal, which i welcome and i am pleased that this report contains a series of measures to combat effectively money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities. so that's the most important thing we have to do.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. as a result, the subject has received a steady increase in professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving lawmakers a number of additional tasks and providing theoretical specialists with new research topics. this is the case with this innovative proposal, which i welcome and i am pleased that this report contains a series of measures to combat effectively money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities. so that's the most important thing we have to do.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is between 2 and 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. as a result, the subject has received a steady increase in professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving lawmakers a number of additional tasks and providing theoretical specialists with new research topics. this is the case with this innovative proposal, which i welcome and i am pleased that this report contains a series of measures to combat effectively money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities. so that's the most important thing we have to do.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. as a result, the subject has received a steady increase in professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving lawmakers a number of additional tasks and providing theoretical specialists with new research topics. this is the case with this innovative proposal, which i welcome and i am pleased that this report contains a series of measures to combat effectively money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities. so that's the most important thing we have to do.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is between 2 and 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. accordingly, the subject has attracted increasing professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving law-enforcement authorities a number of additional tasks and providing researchers with more and more research topics. this is the case with this innovative proposal, which i welcome and i am pleased that this report contains a series of measures to combat effectively money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will finally harmonise and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities. so that's the most important thing we have to do.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. as a result, the subject has received a steady increase in professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving lawmakers a number of additional tasks and providing theoretical specialists with new research topics. the report contains a series of measures aimed at effectively combating money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities. that is the most important thing we have to do now, and that is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. as a result, the subject has received a steady increase in professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving lawmakers a number of additional tasks and providing theoretical specialists with new research topics. this is the case with this innovative proposal, which i welcome and i am pleased that this report contains a series of measures to combat effectively money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities. so that's the most important thing we have to do.
in writing. thanks to today's fact-finding press, it is increasingly difficult to sweep under the carpet the fact of the international prevalence and sheer volume of tax abuse. the data from swissleaks, luxleaks, the panama papers and the bahamas leaks make it clear that much greater tax transparency, as well as closer judicial coordination and cooperation, is needed to effectively combat this type of global phenomenon. while there is no doubt that significant progress has been made in the last few years, there is still a long way to go, for example, to make it appropriate for large multinational companies to disclose their tax data on a country-by-country basis. an important statement of the directive is that the commission should analyse the role that the banking system and financial services providers may play in facilitating money laundering. sufficiently dissuasive sanctions, including the withdrawal of authorisations, are also necessary. for my part, i have supported all actions against money laundering, tax evasion, corruption and i will continue to do so.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the council the adoption of a directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities in relation to the fight against money laundering. the council shall consult parliament before adopting the proposal. in its report, the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that parliament approve the proposal with 22 amendments and asks the commission to amend its proposal accordingly. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is between 2 and 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. as a result, the subject has received a steady increase in professional interest internationally in recent years. the legislative process is producing new results at both international and national level, giving lawmakers a number of additional tasks and providing theoretical specialists with new research topics. this is the case with this innovative proposal, which i welcome and i am pleased that this report contains a series of measures to combat effectively money laundering by criminal organisations. the proposed initiatives will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities. so that's the most important thing we have to do.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report approving the commission proposal to amend directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities in relation to the fight against money laundering. i support the amendments proposed in the report which stress that, given the global nature of anti-money laundering, international cooperation is the key to an effective and efficient fight against such activities. indeed, the luxleaks, the panama papers and the bahamas leaks have made clear the need for greater tax transparency and much closer judicial coordination and cooperation. to make this happen, i would urge, as the report does, that the tax authorities be given the appropriate support. the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, including its links to money laundering, should remain a top priority for the union, but positive results cannot wait long.
in writing. ‒ the observed link between tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering requires that synergies arising from domestic, eu and international cooperation between different authorities involved in the fight against such crimes and abuses be exploited to the greatest possible extent. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the presentation concerns the annual report of the european central bank for the year 2015. the report highlights that the euro area remains characterised by high unemployment, excessively low inflation and significant macroeconomic imbalances, including a current account deficit. productivity growth in the euro area is very low, reflecting the decline in investment since the start of the crisis, the failure to implement structural reforms and weak domestic demand. the report essentially calls for monetary integration, which we do not agree with, because on the one hand it does not have the economic conditions, as some of the amendments suggest, and on the other hand it imposes an integration which we ourselves reject.
in writing. ‒ the ecb's role will be further enhanced, as it will be given new tasks in a wide range of areas, and thus more attention will be paid to its activities. i therefore consider it important to work even more closely with parliament in order to achieve genuine democratic control. i welcome the fact that, as in previous years, this year's report has insisted on the fact, clearly laid down in the treaties, that the central bank's sole and main role is to maintain the stability of the exchange rate - and thus the single currency, the euro - and thus to put the ecb's policy in the right context. i also think it is important to recognise that without the ecb's long-term refinancing operations last year, europe would have had to expect much greater exchange rate volatility. consequently, a much larger money supply would probably have accumulated in the markets, often in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to inflationary growth and then to excessive exchange rate growth. however, i see the ecb also having to start executing these one-off money market operations immediately as soon as the stress in the banking sector eases and if economic indicators relating to inflation make this decision possible. as regards the future, i agree with the importance of the introduction, which should reflect the diversity within the national banking sector.
in writing. ‒ the ecb's role will be further enhanced, as it will be given new tasks in a wide range of areas, and thus more attention will be paid to its activities. i therefore consider it important to work even more closely with parliament in order to achieve genuine democratic control. i welcome the fact that, as in previous years, this year's report has insisted on the fact, clearly laid down in the treaties, that the central bank's sole and main role is to maintain the stability of the exchange rate - and thus the single currency, the euro - and thus to put the ecb's policy in the right context. i also think it is important to recognise that without the ecb's long-term refinancing operations last year, europe would have had to expect much greater exchange rate volatility. consequently, a much larger money supply would probably have accumulated in the markets, often in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to inflationary growth and then to excessive exchange rate growth. however, i see the ecb also having to start executing these one-off money market operations immediately as soon as the stress in the banking sector eases and if economic indicators relating to inflation make this decision possible. as regards the future, i agree with the importance of the introduction, which should reflect the diversity within the national banking sector.
in writing. ‒ the ecb's role will be further enhanced, as it will be given new tasks in a wide range of areas, and thus more attention will be paid to its activities. i therefore consider it important to work even more closely with parliament in order to achieve genuine democratic control. i welcome the fact that, as in previous years, this year's report has insisted on the fact, clearly laid down in the treaties, that the central bank's sole and main role is to maintain the stability of the exchange rate - and thus of the single currency, the euro - and that this has helped to put the ecb's policy in the right context. i also think it is important to recognise that without the ecb's long-term refinancing operation last year, europe would have had to expect much greater exchange rate volatility. consequently, a much larger money supply would probably have accumulated in the markets, often in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to inflationary growth and then to excessive exchange rate growth. however, i see the ecb also having to start executing these one-off money market operations immediately as soon as the stress in the banking sector eases and if economic indicators relating to inflation make this decision possible. as regards the future, i agree with the importance of the introduction, which should reflect the diversity within the national banking sector.
in writing. ‒ the ecb's role will be further enhanced, as it will be given new tasks in a wide range of areas, and thus more attention will be paid to its activities. i therefore consider it important to work even more closely with parliament in order to achieve genuine democratic control. i welcome the fact that, as in previous years, this year's report has insisted on the fact, clearly laid down in the treaties, that the central bank's sole and main role is to maintain the stability of the exchange rate - and thus the single currency, the euro - and thus to put the ecb's policy in the right context. i also think it is important to recognise that without the ecb's long-term refinancing operations last year, europe would have had to expect much greater exchange rate volatility. consequently, a much larger money supply would probably have accumulated in the markets, often in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to inflationary growth and then to excessive exchange rate growth. however, i see the ecb also having to start executing these one-off money market operations immediately as soon as the stress in the banking sector eases and if economic indicators relating to inflation make this decision possible. as regards the future, i agree with the importance of the introduction, which should reflect the diversity within the national banking sector.
in writing. ‒ the ecb's role will be further enhanced, as it will be given new tasks in a wide range of areas, giving it greater focus. i therefore consider it important to work even more closely with parliament in order to achieve genuine democratic control. as in previous years, the insistence in this year's report on the fact that the central bank's sole and main role is to maintain the stability of the exchange rate - and thus the single currency, the euro - as clearly laid down in the treaties, is to be welcomed, and the ecb's policy has thus been placed in the right context. i also think it is important to recognise that without the ecb's long-term refinancing operations last year, europe would have had to expect much greater exchange rate volatility. as a result, a much larger money supply would likely have accumulated in the markets, often in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to inflationary growth and then to excessive exchange rate growth. at the same time, the ecb should also immediately start to execute these one-off monetary market operations as soon as the stress in the banking sector subsides and if economic indicators relating to inflation make this decision possible. as regards the future, i agree with the importance of the introduction, which should reflect the diversity within the national banking sector.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank is given new tasks in many areas, so its role is being evaluated and its activities are being given greater attention. i therefore consider it important to work even more closely with the european parliament in order to achieve genuine democratic control. i welcome the fact that, as in previous years, this year's report has insisted on the fact, clearly laid down in the treaties, that the central bank's sole and main role is to maintain the stability of the exchange rate - and thus of the single currency, the euro - and thus to put the ecb's policy in the right context. i also think it is important to recognise that without the ecb's long-term refinancing operation last year, europe would have had to expect much greater exchange rate volatility. consequently, a much larger money supply would probably have accumulated in the markets, often in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to inflationary growth and then to excessive exchange rate growth. however, i see the ecb also having to start executing these one-off money market operations immediately as soon as the stress in the banking sector eases and if economic indicators relating to inflation make this decision possible. as regards the future, i agree with the importance of the introduction, which should reflect the diversity within the national banking sector.
in writing. ‒ the ecb's role will be further enhanced, as it will be given new tasks in a wide range of areas, and thus more attention will be paid to its activities. i therefore consider it important to work even more closely with parliament in order to achieve genuine democratic control. i welcome the fact that, as in previous years, this year's report has insisted on the fact, clearly laid down in the treaties, that the central bank's sole and main role is to maintain the stability of the exchange rate - and thus of the single currency, the euro - and thus to put the ecb's policy in the right context. i also think it is important to recognise that without the ecb's long-term refinancing operation last year, europe would have had to expect much greater exchange rate volatility. consequently, a much larger money supply would probably have accumulated in the markets, often in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to inflationary growth and then to excessive exchange rate growth. however, i see the ecb also having to start executing these one-off money market operations immediately as soon as the stress in the banking sector eases and if economic indicators relating to inflation make this decision possible. as regards the future, i agree with the importance of the introduction, which should reflect the diversity within the national banking sector.
in writing. the report argues that deeper monetary integration can be the cure for all problems. but if that were true, it would have helped by now, but that's not what we see in the real world, but the unemployment rate in the eu, according to official figures, is somewhere between 4.6% and 24.9% in the member countries that use the euro, real growth is around 1.5%, and investment is down. the overall picture is dominated by severe macroeconomic imbalances characterised by low inflation and a current account deficit. the high level of non-performing loans and undercapitalisation in the banking sector is particularly marked in some member states. from the looks of it, we're gonna have to find another cure for the underlying problem.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank has submitted its report for 2015. the draft resolution of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy seeks to address the economic problems of the euro area: high unemployment, excessively low inflation, significant macroeconomic imbalances, declining levels of investment, lagging structural reforms and, as a consequence, very low productivity growth. it supports the ecb president's view that without appropriate fiscal policies at the level of the member states and ambitious and socially balanced structural reform programmes, the single monetary policy alone cannot stimulate aggregate demand. it is committed to the rapid, gradual and complete completion of banking union. it is concerned about the risk of a property and asset bubble due to the extremely low (negative) interest rate policy and recommends that the ecb be called upon to take appropriate action. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the ecb's role will be further enhanced, as it will be given new tasks in a wide range of areas, and thus more attention will be paid to its activities. i therefore consider it important to work even more closely with parliament in order to achieve genuine democratic control. i welcome the fact that, as in previous years, this year's report has insisted on the fact, clearly laid down in the treaties, that the central bank's sole and main role is to maintain the stability of the exchange rate - and thus of the single currency, the euro - and that this has helped to put the ecb's policy in the right context. i also think it is important to recognise that without the ecb's long-term refinancing operation last year, europe would have had to expect much greater exchange rate volatility. consequently, a much larger money supply would probably have accumulated in the markets, often in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to inflationary growth and then to excessive exchange rate growth. however, i see the ecb also having to start executing these one-off money market operations immediately as soon as the stress in the banking sector eases and if economic indicators relating to inflation make this decision possible. as regards the future, i agree with the importance of the introduction, which should reflect the diversity within the national banking sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2015, and i also welcome the work of the european central bank in protecting the euro, which has proved indispensable to the preservation of the financial stability of the euro area. i also agree with the report that without appropriate fiscal policies at member state level and ambitious and socially balanced structural reform programmes, the single monetary policy alone cannot stimulate aggregate demand. i now call on the ecb to carefully assess the risks of the emergence of a property and asset bubble due to ultra-low negative interest rate policies in particular in certain large cities and to submit proposals together with the esrb specifically for the development of macroprudential recommendations to address this problem. i also agree with the statement that it is essential to continue the monetary dialogue in order to ensure the transparency of monetary policy and of parliament towards the wider public.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the possible withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, president draghi has rightly stated that the extent to which the economic outlook will change will depend to a large extent on the timing, the course and the final outcome of the negotiations ahead. the euro area has been resilient so far, but this uncertainty factor could make the baseline scenario look negative, the document says. i voted in favour of the group's position in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the report is about a green paper on financial services for the general public. it is based on the fact that financial exclusion is a widespread and serious problem across europe, making life very difficult for people who lack adequate access to at least the most basic financial services. the green paper on retail financial services therefore focuses mainly on financial services offered to citizens seeking cross-border services. it believes that efforts should continue to be made to dismantle barriers and curb existing protectionist trends that hinder innovation in consumer financial services. i disagree with the report. brexit has shown that unfounded integration has its limits, and that crossing them can lead to disintegration. the main problem is that while they want to centralize everything and bring it under the control of brussels, the bureaucrats in brussels are not responsible for the economic and social problems that this centralized integration causes. (for example, the indebtedness of peripheral countries or the decline in living standards.) we say no to any further attempts at integration of this kind, and the union's coat of arms must be re-buttoned from the beginning.
in writing. ‒ the political importance of european integration of the services market should not be underestimated, especially at a time when the union's unity, the promotion of cohesion within and outside the euro area and the avoidance of unions within the union are all essential. the creation of a common market for financial services is a joint responsibility of all member states. i am aware of the different situations in the member states, the difficulties encountered in opening up the market and the importance of recognising the progress made. however, double standards and exceptions are not allowed under any circumstances. the principle of the internal market without practical steps would undermine the confidence of european citizens in the eu's reform agenda. most importantly, the members of the european council and the competitiveness council should be entrusted with the task of keeping the internal market in services regularly on the political agenda, alongside a clear timetable for removing obstacles to free movement. in the end, europe can only embark on the path of growth if member states commit themselves to a genuinely free and open internal market in services for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ the political importance of european integration of the services market should not be underestimated, especially at a time when the union's unity, the promotion of cohesion within and outside the euro area and the avoidance of unions within the union are all essential. the creation of a common market for financial services is a joint responsibility of all member states. i am aware of the different situations in the member states, the difficulties encountered in opening up the market and the importance of recognising the progress made. however, double standards and exceptions are not allowed under any circumstances. the principle of the internal market without practical steps would undermine the confidence of european citizens in the eu's reform agenda. most importantly, the members of the european council and the competitiveness council should be entrusted with the task of keeping the internal market in services regularly on the political agenda, alongside a clear timetable for removing obstacles to free movement. in the end, europe can only embark on the path of growth if member states commit themselves to a genuinely free and open internal market in services for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ the political importance of european integration of the services market should not be underestimated, especially at a time when the union's unity, the promotion of cohesion within and outside the euro area and the avoidance of unions within the union are all essential. the creation of a common market for financial services is a joint responsibility of all member states. i am aware of the different situations in the member states, the difficulties encountered in opening up the market and the importance of recognising the progress made. however, double standards and exceptions are not allowed under any circumstances. the principle of the internal market without practical steps would undermine the confidence of european citizens in the eu's reform agenda. most importantly, the members of the european council and the competitiveness council should be entrusted with the task of keeping the internal market in services regularly on the political agenda, alongside a clear timetable for removing obstacles to free movement. in the end, europe can only embark on the path of growth if member states commit themselves to a genuinely free and open internal market in services for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ the political importance of european integration of the services market should not be underestimated, especially at a time when the union's unity, the promotion of cohesion within and outside the euro area and the avoidance of unions within the union are all essential. the creation of a common market for financial services is a joint responsibility of all member states. i am aware of the different situations in the member states, the difficulties encountered in opening up the market and the importance of recognising the progress made. however, double standards and exceptions are not allowed under any circumstances. the principle of the internal market without practical steps would undermine the confidence of european citizens in the eu's reform agenda. most importantly, the members of the european council and the competitiveness council should be entrusted with the task of keeping the internal market in services regularly on the political agenda, alongside a clear timetable for removing obstacles to free movement. in the end, europe can only embark on the path of growth if member states commit themselves to a genuinely free and open internal market in services for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ the political importance of european integration of the services market should not be underestimated, especially at a time when the union's unity, the promotion of cohesion within and outside the euro area and the avoidance of unions within the union are all essential. the creation of a common market for financial services is a joint responsibility of all member states. i am aware of the different situations in the member states, the difficulties encountered in opening up the market and the importance of recognising the progress made. however, double standards and exceptions are not allowed under any circumstances. the principle of the internal market without practical steps would undermine the confidence of european citizens in the eu's reform agenda. most importantly, the members of the european council and the competitiveness council should be entrusted with the task of keeping the internal market in services regularly on the political agenda, alongside a clear timetable for removing obstacles to free movement. in the end, europe can only embark on the path of growth if member states commit themselves to a genuinely free and open internal market in services for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ the political importance of european integration of the services market should not be underestimated. this is particularly true today, when promoting cohesion in countries inside and outside the euro area and avoiding unions within the union is a priority. the creation of a common market for financial services is a joint responsibility of all member states. i am aware of the different situations in the member states, the difficulties encountered in opening up the market and the importance of recognising the progress made. however, double standards and exceptions are not allowed under any circumstances. the principle of the internal market without practical steps would undermine the confidence of european citizens in the eu's reform agenda. most importantly, the members of the european council and the competitiveness council should be entrusted with the task of keeping the internal market in services regularly on the political agenda, alongside a clear timetable for removing obstacles to free movement. in the end, europe can only embark on the path of growth if member states commit themselves to a genuinely free and open internal market in services for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ the political importance of european integration of the services market should not be underestimated, especially at a time when the union's unity, the promotion of cohesion within and outside the euro area and the avoidance of unions within the union are all essential. the creation of a common market for financial services is a joint responsibility of all member states. i am aware of the different situations in the member states, the difficulties encountered in opening up the market and the importance of recognising the progress made. however, double standards and exceptions are not allowed under any circumstances. the principle of the internal market without practical steps would undermine the confidence of european citizens in the eu's reform agenda. most importantly, the members of the european council and the competitiveness council should be entrusted with the task of keeping the internal market in services regularly on the political agenda, alongside a clear timetable for removing obstacles to free movement. in the end, europe can only embark on the path of growth if member states commit themselves to a genuinely free and open internal market in services for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. the report's premise is largely correct given that financial exclusion is a widespread and serious problem across europe, making life difficult for people who lack adequate access to the most basic financial services. the details should be supported as a welcome objective to enable consumers to identify and compare safe, sustainable and simple products in the range available to them. but the report as a whole is not acceptable, because as brexit has shown, unfounded integration has its limits and can even lead to disintegration. the power-hungry centralization of the brussels bureaucracy, coupled with a complete lack of accountability, proved to be a dead end, as expected. we are faced with a host of unresolved social and economic problems, primarily in the peripheral countries: unemployment, falling living standards, debt, etc.
in writing. ‒ on 10 december 2015, the commission published a green paper entitled 'financial services for consumers: better products, more choice and more opportunities for consumers and businesses'. the report by the economic and monetary affairs committee concludes that the creation of a well-functioning single market for financial services to consumers is a major project, but one that is worth the effort. it suggests that parliament should take the view that the green paper was presented at the right time, that the commission took the right steps and that the procedure chosen was the right method. it shall also take into account the challenges to be faced in order to promote the agenda for financial services to the public. i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ the political importance of european integration of the services market should not be underestimated, especially at a time when the union's unity, the promotion of cohesion within and outside the euro area and the avoidance of unions within the union are all essential. the creation of a common market for financial services is a joint responsibility of all member states. i am aware of the different situations in the member states, the difficulties encountered in opening up the market and the importance of recognising the progress made. however, double standards and exceptions are not allowed under any circumstances. the principle of the internal market without practical steps would undermine the confidence of european citizens in the eu's reform agenda. most importantly, the members of the european council and the competitiveness council should be entrusted with the task of keeping the internal market in services regularly on the political agenda, alongside a clear timetable for removing obstacles to free movement. in the end, europe can only embark on the path of growth if member states commit themselves to a genuinely free and open internal market in services for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the green paper on financial services for consumers. i welcome the public consultation on the green paper on financial services for consumers. it is appropriate that the report addresses the additional opportunities offered by digitalisation, which will also create new opportunities for consumers, investors and smes in terms of competition, cross-border activities and innovation. i also agree with the rapporteur that digitalisation alone is not enough to create a genuine european market for financial services to consumers. indeed, many barriers, such as different tax, social, judicial, health, contracting and consumer protection systems, and different languages and cultures, cannot be overcome by digitisation alone. one of the most important points of the report, in my view, is that it highlights the need for an adequate legal framework to protect consumers and that it draws attention to the fact that financial and non-financial data collected from consumers from different sources are increasingly being used by financial services providers for different purposes. i welcome the fact that the report emphasises that the use of personal data and large data sets relating to financial services providers should be in line with union data protection legislation.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the initiative on financial services for consumers, the rapporteur believes that the commission has taken the right steps and that the arbitration procedure is the right approach. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly in recent times. the main security threats currently facing the union are terrorism, hybrid threats, economic volatility, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. no single member state or organisation can tackle the unprecedented new challenges on its own. in this situation, the eu must do all it can and find the means to guarantee security. the report stresses that europe needs political will and determination to guarantee its long-term security. it also urged the eu member states to make use of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon for the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular through permanent structured cooperation. the defence union must be effectively funded and coordinated with nato. in addition, a meeting of defence ministers should be established within the council to provide permanent political leadership and coordinate the development of a european defence union. the increasingly negative perception of risks and threats in europe makes the establishment of a european defence union urgent. this is mainly due to the deteriorating security of the european union's borders, especially those shared with its eastern and southern neighbours. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly in recent times. the main security threats currently facing the union are terrorism, hybrid threats, economic volatility, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. no single member state or organisation can tackle the unprecedented challenges on its own. in this situation, the eu must do all it can and find the means to guarantee security. the report stresses that europe needs political will and determination to guarantee its long-term security. it also urged the eu member states to make use of the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty for the common security and defence policy, in particular through permanent structured cooperation. the defence union must be effectively funded and coordinated with nato. in addition, a meeting of defence ministers should be established within the council to provide permanent political leadership and coordinate the development of the defence union. the increasingly negative perception of risks and threats in europe makes the establishment of a european defence union urgent. this is mainly due to the deteriorating security of the european union's borders, especially those shared with its eastern and southern neighbours. this report is in line with the hungarian position, and i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly in recent times. the main security threats currently facing the union are terrorism, hybrid threats, economic volatility, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. no single member state or organisation can tackle these unprecedented new challenges alone. in this situation, the eu must do all it can and find the means to guarantee security. the report stresses that europe needs political will and determination to guarantee its long-term security. it also urged the eu member states to make use of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon for the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular through permanent structured cooperation. the defence union must be effectively funded and coordinated with nato. in addition, a meeting of defence ministers should be established within the council to provide permanent political leadership and coordinate the development of a european defence union. the increasingly negative perception of risks and threats in europe makes the establishment of a european defence union urgent. this is mainly due to the deteriorating security of the european union's borders, especially those shared with its eastern and southern neighbours. this report is in line with the hungarian position and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly in recent times. at present, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change are the main security threats. no single member state or organisation can tackle these unprecedented new challenges alone. in this situation, the eu must do all it can and find the means to guarantee security. the report stresses that europe needs political will and determination to guarantee its long-term security. it also urged the eu member states to make use of the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty for the common security and defence policy, in particular through permanent structured cooperation. the defence union must be effectively funded and coordinated with nato. in addition, a meeting of defence ministers should be established within the council to provide permanent political leadership and coordinate the development of a european defence union. the increasingly negative perception of risks and threats in europe makes the establishment of a european defence union urgent. this is mainly due to the deteriorating security of the european union's borders, especially those shared with its eastern and southern neighbours. this report is in line with the hungarian position and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly in recent times. the main security threats currently facing the union are terrorism, hybrid threats, economic uncertainty, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. no single member state can address these unprecedented new challenges on its own. in this situation, the eu must do all it can and find the means to guarantee security. the report stresses that europe needs political will and determination to ensure long-term security. it also urged the eu member states to make use of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon for the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular through permanent structured cooperation. the defence union must be effectively funded and coordinated with nato. in addition, a meeting of defence ministers should be established within the council to provide permanent political leadership and coordinate the development of a european defence union. the increasingly negative perception of risks and threats makes the establishment of a european defence union urgent. this is mainly due to the deteriorating security of the european union's borders, especially those shared with its eastern and southern neighbours.
in writing. ‒ the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly in recent times. the main security threats currently facing the union are terrorism, hybrid threats, economic volatility, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. no single member state or organisation can tackle these unprecedented new challenges alone. in this situation, the eu must do all it can and find the means to guarantee security. the report stresses that europe needs political will and determination to guarantee its long-term security. it also urged the eu member states to make use of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon for the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular through permanent structured cooperation. the defence union must be effectively funded and coordinated with nato. in addition, a meeting of defence ministers should be established within the council to provide permanent political leadership and coordinate the development of a european defence union. the increasingly negative perception of risks and threats in europe makes the establishment of a european defence union urgent. this is mainly due to the deteriorating security of the european union's borders, especially those shared with its eastern and southern neighbours. this report is in line with the hungarian position and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly in recent times. the main security threats currently facing the union are terrorism, hybrid threats, economic volatility, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. no single member state or organisation can tackle these unprecedented new challenges alone. in this situation, the eu must do all it can and find the means to guarantee security. the report stresses that europe needs political will and determination to guarantee its long-term security. it also urged the eu member states to make use of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon for the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular through permanent structured cooperation. the defence union must be effectively funded and coordinated with nato. in addition, a meeting of defence ministers should be established within the council to provide permanent political leadership and coordinate the development of a european defence union. the increasingly negative perception of risks and threats in europe makes the establishment of a european defence union urgent. this is mainly due to the deteriorating security of the european union's borders, especially those shared with its eastern and southern neighbours. this report is in line with the hungarian position and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. the report gives a specific interpretation to the provisions of article 41 (2) of the teu on the eu budget, which prohibit the use of the eu budget to cover costs arising from military or defence-related operations. clearly, there was a strong lobbying interest in the adoption of the €500 million defence research programme per year and in raising member states' defence spending to 2% of their gdp. but why would this be in the interests of eu citizens when there is little effective action against the trained and combat-trained terrorists who are currently the biggest security threat, coming from the war zones of the middle east? the enemy is already inside the borders, no need to look outside.
in writing. ‒ in the longer term, my party, the democratic coalition, is thinking about making the european union a federation, creating a united states of europe. it is clear that the creation of a european defence union is an essential step in this direction. however, the establishment of a defence union is also needed in the short term. it is becoming increasingly clear that the migration crisis can only be effectively tackled by a common policy, including its protection aspects. the union must also assume its responsibility for dealing with crises that threaten the security of the world, which again requires the formulation of a common defence policy. nor can the situation continue indefinitely whereby nato is the main guarantor of the security of the member states of the european union, but the burden of this is disproportionately placed on the united states of america. the election of donald trump as president suggests that the us will quickly end this unilateralism, and a possible move like this cannot come unprepared to the european union. moreover, the us will obviously be more willing to take more deliberate steps in this direction if the eu is more serious about doing its part to protect itself and its security. finally, the imminent withdrawal of the main adversary, the united kingdom, from the eu, provides a better opportunity than ever to take more decisive steps towards the creation of a european defence union. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly in recent times. the main security threats currently facing the union are terrorism, hybrid threats, economic volatility, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. no single member state or organisation can tackle the unprecedented challenges on its own. in this situation, the eu must do all it can and find the means to guarantee security. europe needs political will and determination to guarantee its long-term security. it also urged the eu member states to make use of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon for the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular through permanent structured cooperation. the defence union must be effectively funded and coordinated with nato. in addition, a meeting of defence ministers should be established within the council to provide permanent political leadership and coordinate the development of a european defence union. the increasingly negative perception of risks and threats in europe makes the establishment of a european defence union urgent. this is mainly due to the deteriorating security of the european union's borders, especially those shared with its eastern and southern neighbours. this report is in line with the hungarian position and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution based on a parliamentary report arguing in favour of the creation of a european defence union. i believe that the objective conditions for a greater degree of defence autonomy in europe are in place: the eu, with the existing capabilities of each member state, could in principle be the strongest defence alliance in the world. from a military and economic perspective, the sheer number of overlaps and parallels would clearly require a concertation of capabilities and assets, with the aim of achieving more security for less money. the treaty of lisbon and the series of political decisions taken under the cfsp also provide the necessary legal basis for the completion of union solidarity in the field of defence, both under the cfsp and the edu. the political and military necessity of the edu was created by the deteriorating security environment in the eu over the years, new types of security challenges, terrorist, cyber and hybrid threats, and above all the military-political threat in our immediate southern and eastern neighbourhood. i believe that the report, in addition to explaining these reasons, contains useful organisational and legislative proposals for the establishment of the defence union. i am convinced that the ep will make a decisive contribution to building the political will needed at eu level through this resolution and its further political and legislative activities.
in writing. ‒ the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly in recent times. the main security threats currently facing the union are terrorism, hybrid threats, economic volatility, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. no single member state or organisation can tackle these unprecedented new challenges alone. in this situation, the eu must do all it can and find the means to guarantee security. the report stresses that europe needs political will and determination to guarantee its long-term security. it also urged the eu member states to make use of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon for the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular through permanent structured cooperation. the defence union must be effectively funded and coordinated with nato. in addition, a meeting of defence ministers should be established within the council to provide permanent political leadership and coordinate the development of a european defence union. the increasingly negative perception of risks and threats in europe makes the establishment of a european defence union urgent. this is mainly due to the deteriorating security of the european union's borders, especially those shared with its eastern and southern neighbours. this report is in line with the hungarian position and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the security situation both within europe and in the surrounding region has deteriorated significantly, posing difficult and unprecedented challenges that no single country or organisation can address alone.
in writing. ‒ water transport plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union in an environmentally friendly and more energy-efficient way, which can also include the use of new, innovative technologies such as solar and wind energy. i would stress that better use of available capacity for waterborne passenger transport can not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and overall provide better transport services. a form of transport can be developed which also benefits tourism by allowing tourism to flourish on the river and waterfronts. this can boost the economic growth of a lesser-known region. it is very important to me that the majority of passengers on domestic shipping travel on ships that meet common eu safety standards, and that there is some training available for the crew. overall, i regard the importance of the report as positive, and therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ water transport plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union in an environmentally friendly and more energy-efficient way, which can also include the use of new, innovative technologies such as solar and wind energy. i would stress that better use of available capacity for waterborne passenger transport can not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and overall provide better transport services. a form of transport can be developed which also benefits tourism by allowing tourism to flourish on the river and waterfronts. this can boost the economic growth of a lesser-known region. it is very important to me that the majority of passengers on domestic shipping travel on ships that meet common eu safety standards, and that there is some training available for the crew. overall, i am positive about the importance of the report, which is why i voted in favour of it!
in writing. ‒ water transport plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union in an environmentally friendly and more energy-efficient way, which can also include the use of new, innovative technologies such as solar and wind energy. i would stress that better use of available capacity for waterborne passenger transport can not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and overall provide better transport services. a form of transport can be developed which also benefits tourism by allowing tourism to flourish on the river and waterfronts. this can boost the economic growth of a lesser-known region. it is very important to me that the majority of passengers on domestic shipping travel on ships that meet common eu safety standards, and that there is some training available for the crew. overall, i am positive about the importance of the report, which is why i voted in favour of it!
in writing. ‒ water transport plays a key role in connecting the regions of the european union. this environmentally friendly and more energy-efficient mode of transport could also allow for the use of new, innovative technologies such as solar and wind energy. i would stress that better use of available capacity for waterborne passenger transport can not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and overall provide better transport services. a form of transport can be developed which also benefits tourism by allowing tourism to flourish on the river and waterfronts. so, overall, i consider the report to be positive, and as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted in favour of its adoption!
in writing. ‒ water transport plays a fundamental role in connecting the different regions of the european union. in addition, water transport is a highly environmentally friendly and energy-efficient alternative to passenger transport, which can also benefit from the use of new innovative technologies such as solar and wind energy. it is of particular importance that the capacity of waterborne passenger transport be better utilised to help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, and that air quality be improved. a form of transport can be developed which also benefits tourism, as it allows tourism to flourish on the river and waterfronts. this could be the start of an economic recovery in a lesser-known region.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises in transport play a significant role in the operation of european roads and make a significant contribution to the eu economy and job creation. the report we have just voted on is about the opportunities and challenges facing these companies, and it is therefore very important that it is on the agenda for the plenary. however, i regret to say that i find that this positive line is contradicted by paragraph 37 of the report, which calls into question the derogation for light vehicles on the grounds that they are unjustifiably present in international traffic. however, it should be pointed out that there are no reliable data on this and that if these carriers were to comply with all the requirements for vehicles over 3,5 tonnes, this could lead to disproportionate financial and administrative overheads. therefore, i cannot support this point in the report. but overall i agree with the report and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ water transport plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union in an environmentally friendly and more energy-efficient way, which can also include the use of new, innovative technologies such as solar and wind energy. i would stress that better use of available capacity for waterborne passenger transport can not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and overall provide better transport services. a form of transport can be developed which also benefits tourism by allowing tourism to flourish on the river and waterfronts. this can boost the economic growth of a lesser-known region. it is very important to me that the majority of passengers on domestic shipping travel on ships that meet common eu safety standards, and that there is some training available for the crew. overall, i am positive about the importance of the report, which is why i voted in favour of it!
in writing. a balanced report on the current situation and potential of waterborne passenger transport, a sector that is indeed somewhat neglected, also taking into account the proliferation of electric and natural gas vehicles. river navigation is greatly reduced in my country, its development is timely. environmental considerations are given due weight in the material, and rightly so, since ships docking in urban ports cause a serious environmental burden.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on transport and tourism takes as its starting point the fact that in europe a large proportion of commuters travel by road, causing bottlenecks, congestion and delays on the roads of europe's cities. this is despite the fact that europe's geography, its many rivers, waterways, estuaries, long coastlines and islands offer extraordinary opportunities for water transport. there are many areas in europe where travelling by ferry or cruise ship would be more sustainable, easier and faster, and would enhance the social and economic well-being of the region, while protecting europe's environment and the health of its citizens. in order to ensure the efficient and effective use of the available capacities, the commission should develop a european strategy for the development of the maritime transport sector. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree that waterborne passenger transport, including sea ferries, inland ferries, dams and leisure cruises, is essential to achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector. i agree with the author that better use of existing capacity and further development of waterborne passenger transport can not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall. the report describes that water transport is already one of the most sustainable ways of travelling and i agree that there is further potential to make ships even more environmentally friendly and energy efficient. but i think that we can only achieve this by researching innovative technologies in areas such as solar and wind, onshore electricity and alternative fuels. the report also offers a solution by identifying the eu funds available for these such as the cohesion, structural, regional, interreg, horizon 2020, the european network and transport facility, the ten-t and the esf.
in writing. ‒ waterborne passenger transport, including sea ferries, inland ferries, dams and leisure voyages, is essential to achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, supported by policies on safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, and on quality of service, passenger rights and accessibility. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the initiative sets positive goals such as reducing poverty and inequality, and supporting third world countries. to achieve these, it encourages the most efficient allocation of development resources. the draft rightly stresses that in order to achieve this, it is important that governments, parliaments, multilateral organisations, civil society, trade unions and the private sector also play their part in these tasks. despite all these positives, one of the recitals contains proposals which do not serve the interests of developing countries but would allow them to be exploited by recommending harmful economic policy measures. since the parliament did not support the exclusion of that paragraph from the draft, and despite the positive aspects of the proposal, i was unable to support it, i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that the role of citizens, local communities, faith-based organisations, academic institutions and trade unions in development needs to be strengthened and that full involvement of stakeholders in the development process is important, including in planning, implementation and accountability. i welcome the report's statement on civil society organisations that they should act as independent development actors and that the commission should improve their access to funding. the report highlights that development aid cannot be effective where there is no peace, respect for human rights, the rule of law, an impartial, efficient and independent judiciary; where there are no environmental, social and labour standards. transparency and public support for development assistance are needed to eradicate corruption once and for all. finally, i strongly agree with the rapporteur's position on the private sector, which is that businesses are important partners in achieving the sdgs. i believe it is essential to create a favourable environment for businesses in the partner countries, in particular by creating transparent legal and regulatory systems. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. i agree with the rapporteur that the role of citizens, local communities, faith-based organisations, academic institutions and trade unions in development needs to be strengthened and that full involvement of stakeholders in the development process is important, including in planning, implementation and accountability. i welcome the report's statement on civil society organisations that they should act as independent development actors and that the commission should improve their access to funding. the report highlights that development aid cannot be effective where there is no peace, respect for human rights, the rule of law, an impartial, efficient and independent judiciary; where there are no environmental, social and labour standards. transparency and public support for development assistance are needed to eradicate corruption once and for all. finally, i strongly agree with the rapporteur's position on the private sector, which is that businesses are important partners in achieving the sdgs. i believe it is essential to create a favourable environment for businesses in the partner countries, in particular by creating transparent legal and regulatory systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. i agree with the rapporteur that the role of citizens, local communities, faith-based organisations, academic institutions and trade unions in development needs to be strengthened and that full involvement of stakeholders in the development process is important, including in planning, implementation and accountability. i welcome the report's statement on civil society organisations that they should act as independent development actors and that the commission should improve their access to funding. the report highlights that development aid cannot be effective where there is no peace, respect for human rights, the rule of law, an impartial, efficient and independent judiciary; where there are no environmental, social and labour standards. transparency and public support for development assistance are needed to eradicate corruption once and for all. finally, i strongly agree with the rapporteur's position on the private sector, which is that businesses are important partners in achieving the sdgs. i believe it is essential to create a favourable environment for businesses in the partner countries, in particular by creating transparent legal and regulatory systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. i agree with the rapporteur that the role of citizens, local communities, faith-based organisations, academic institutions and trade unions in development needs to be strengthened and that full involvement of stakeholders in the development process is important, including in planning, implementation and accountability. i welcome the report's statement on civil society organisations that they should act as independent development actors and that the commission should improve their access to funding. the report highlights that development aid cannot be effective where there is no peace, respect for human rights, the rule of law, an impartial, efficient and independent judiciary; where there are no environmental, social and labour standards. transparency and public support for development aid are needed to eradicate corruption once and for all. finally, i strongly agree with the rapporteur's position on the private sector, which is that businesses are important partners in achieving the sdgs. i believe it is essential to create a favourable environment for businesses in the partner countries, in particular by creating transparent legal and regulatory systems.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that the role of citizens, local communities, faith-based organisations, scientific institutes and trade unions in development needs to be strengthened; and i also consider it important to fully involve stakeholders in the development process, including in planning, implementation and accountability. i welcome the report's statement on civil society organisations that they should act as independent development actors and that the commission should improve access to funding. the report also highlights that development aid cannot be effective where there is no peace, respect for human rights, the rule of law, an impartial, efficient and independent judiciary; where there are no necessary environmental, social and labour standards. transparency and public support for improvements are needed to eradicate corruption once and for all. the private sector part of the report is also worth highlighting, pointing out that businesses are important partners in the achievement of the sdgs. it is essential to create a favourable environment for smes in the partner countries, but above all to create transparent legal and regulatory systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. i agree with the rapporteur that the role of citizens, local communities, faith-based organisations, academic institutions and trade unions in development needs to be strengthened and that full involvement of stakeholders in the development process is important, including in planning, implementation and accountability. i welcome the report's statement on civil society organisations that they should act as independent development actors and that the commission should improve their access to funding. the report highlights that development aid cannot be effective where there is no peace, respect for human rights, the rule of law, an impartial, efficient and independent judiciary; where there are no environmental, social and labour standards. transparency and public support for development aid are needed to eradicate corruption once and for all. finally, i strongly agree with the rapporteur's position on the private sector, which is that businesses are important partners in achieving the sdgs. i believe it is essential to create a favourable environment for businesses in the partner countries, in particular by creating transparent legal and regulatory systems.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that the role of citizens, local communities, faith-based organisations, academic institutions and trade unions in development needs to be strengthened and that full involvement of stakeholders in the development process is important, including in planning, implementation and accountability. i welcome the report's statement on civil society organisations that they should act as independent development actors and that the commission should improve their access to funding. the report highlights that development aid cannot be effective where there is no peace, respect for human rights, the rule of law, an impartial, efficient and independent judiciary; where there are no environmental, social and labour standards. transparency and public support for development aid are needed to eradicate corruption once and for all. finally, i strongly agree with the rapporteur's position on the private sector, which is that businesses are important partners in achieving the sdgs. i believe it is essential to create a favourable environment for businesses in the partner countries, in particular by creating transparent legal and regulatory systems.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on development states that the union has a longstanding commitment to improving the efficiency of aid and development through development cooperation. at the same time, as the world's largest donor of development aid, it has a key responsibility to improve efficiency and to enhance the accountability of eu aid distributed around the world. moreover, the union should lead global efforts to promote a development agenda and ensure that transparency, good governance and the rule of law remain at the heart of the developing world. the european union is committed to supporting the implementation of the unfccc and the unfccc sustainable development goals. at the same time, the second high-level meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc) will be held in nairobi, kenya, at the end of november 2016, to monitor the implementation of the pushanga commitments. the draft stresses the importance of taking into account the implementation of global commitments on aid and development efficiency after five years. it also sees this as a good opportunity to analyse how aid and development efficiency can contribute to the implementation of the sustainable development goals and the addis ababa agenda on financing for development. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the union's long-standing commitment to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation. accordingly, the european parliament already took a position during the previous cycle on the issue of improving aid effectiveness, which is now covered by the broader concept of development effectiveness. the report highlights the importance of taking into account the implementation of global commitments on aid and development effectiveness after five years, and that this is also a good opportunity to analyse how aid and development have contributed to the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the implementation of the addis ababa agenda on financing for development. i consider it important to note that the union has played a key role in both the development of current standards for aid and development efficiency and the adoption of the 2030 agenda, and now that we have entered the implementation phase, it must continue to take the lead on these issues. it is interesting to note that the european union and its member states have previously committed to donate 0.7% of their gross national income to support. all this through the european development fund (edf) in a transparent, predictable and accountable way. i think that through this, through innovation and technology, we can effectively help developing countries.
in writing. ‒ the union has a longstanding commitment to improving the efficiency of aid and development through development cooperation. i supported him with my vote.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the high representative on the humanitarian assistance that the union is providing and has provided to the people of syria affected by the war. the ultimate goal must be a ceasefire, peace and a stable state. this requires the cooperation of two great powers, the united states and russia. relations are now at a cold war low. the election of donald trump gives hope that this relationship can become constructive, and the european union must play a positive role in this. it has been said here on many occasions that crimes against humanity must be brought to justice. i agree with you completely, but this cannot be started with a preconception, talking only about one side, but in this multi-sided war, the crimes committed by all sides must be fully exposed.
madam president, we can rightly say that the war in syria that is unfolding before our eyes has created the greatest humanitarian crisis since the second world war. despite international efforts, the country continues to be at war, and the cruel treatment of civilians, including women, children, and the elderly, is at its height. the situation in aleppo is particularly tragic. the former economic centre of syria lies in ruins, and the total airstrikes against it have spared no lives of the vulnerable population, not even health facilities. at the same time, the islamic state is rampant across the country, committing a series of mass killings against indigenous christian and yazidi minorities that amount to crimes against humanity and war crimes. the unsustainable situation could ultimately be resolved only by full international cooperation. without it, the crisis will deepen and there will be no chance of lasting peace. the european union must play a greater role than ever in resolving the syrian crisis and, in the long term, in the return of refugees, the reconciliation of society, the parties to the conflict and the reconstruction of the country.
madam president, allow me to congratulate you. i'm very glad you told me. you were talking about the future, and some people were making it hard. i think that yes, we have to talk about the future here, especially in the context that we have no army and we have to seek a political solution. the group of the european people's party is seeking to obtain information from authentic sources on the middle east. we've done a lot of fact-finding trips, and we're constantly hearing from the leaders of local religions and ethnic groups, whether they're christian or muslim. the clear proposals of the leaders must be heard by europe. reconciliation, the establishment of a secular state in the future of syria. international contacts with actors financing extremism should be suspended. we've done very little about it. we must maintain the centuries-old balance of a diverse society. you have to be very careful with this. and most importantly, nothing without the locals, instead of them, because then we're just using them for their own short-term political ends, if for any other reason.
in writing. the situation in syria is tragic and the protection of civilians and children must be a priority! at the same time, we must not forget that the causes of refugees will eventually disappear and that it is in our common interest that syrian refugees return to their homeland. so we have to try to help the countries that are neighbouring syria, that are hosting large refugee camps, such as turkey, lebanon, jordan. it is important that people forced to flee live in camps close to their home countries in adequate living conditions. if we cannot provide that, then new masses of people will risk their lives to go to europe. it is also important to provide the children in refugee camps with a proper education, which is essential for their healthy development and for the future of their own communities, because a generation cannot be left out of education. since the beginning of the crisis, hungary has taken the position that refugees should be helped close to their homeland, and therefore has allocated significant amounts of money for humanitarian aid, and on the initiative of the church, it also covers the education costs of hundreds of children living in refugee camps in lebanon, jordan and northern iraq.
i have received eight motions for resolutions. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 24 november 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point 2 of the annex to the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the west bank, including settlements [2016/2998 ((rsp)) ]
i'll inform my colleagues that there is no yellow card option either, at this point in the negotiations, we are 25 minutes behind schedule.
madam president, i say to the vice-president, allow me to a start with a quotation: ‘if you say you want two states, either you do something now or it is gone. we do not have a safety net or a plan b’. these are your words, madam vice-president, and roughly a year ago when they were spoken i fully agreed with them, and i agree with them even more now. i also share the view that i would be very happy and very grateful for any glimmer of hope, namely for the most important actor, the israeli government to show a basic commitment to the two-state solution, because there is no alternative in sight. but what we are seeing is actually a rise in construction in the west bank, and it goes on at an increasing speed. between january and october, 158 eu- or member state-funded structures were demolished, twice last year’s total. this is something which we should focus on, even if you take into consideration the full scope of the complexity.
i'll close this discussion. i would inform you that the vote on the resolution will take place at a later part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr ioan mircea paşcu, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
mr president, political developments in the last six months have compounded the challenges to european security and defence significantly. some would argue that they have compounded these challenges to the degree that, today, the fundaments of the european security structures are called into question. i am not among those who would seek to raise false alarms, but there is much that we need to rethink. the reports tend in that direction, but with all the failures which have already been mentioned. we need, i believe, a robust military capability; we need substantial power projection capability; we need credible power in order to be able to engage in conflict prevention successfully. but – allow me to use another comparison on relative defence spending – we spend 2.5 times more per year on defence than russia. let me be blunt: i believe we need more efficient and coordinated spending, and not more money.
in writing. young people today need general transversal skills such as critical thinking, responsible decision-making, conflict management and creativity to contribute to their active participation in society. research has shown that high rates of adults with low basic and digital skills are associated with lower productivity levels and poorer competitiveness prospects. this is not only disadvantageous for individuals but also extremely costly for the economy and society as a whole. i welcome the commission's proposal to establish a health guarantee. differences in the supply and demand of skills and skills shortages can have a negative impact not only on productivity and growth, but also on the social situation within and between member states. i support the proposal that member states should establish a so-called health guarantee to provide access to adults who are excluded from the basic education and training system and who are not covered by the youth guarantee. this would allow them to: acquire a minimum level of literacy, numeracy and digital skills and/or progress towards an eqf level 4 qualification or equivalent by acquiring a wider range of skills.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, sign language interpreting is not a service but a basic human right for full participation in the community. accessibility is a prerequisite for people with disabilities to live independently and participate in society in an appropriate way. i want it on the record that at my request, the sign language interpreter did not translate my previous words, and the members present could not understand what i was saying. i wanted to feel what it means when i can't use my native language freely and express my thoughts in that way. i'm gonna repeat what i said. so, if one of the three is missing, education, employment, and access, then deaf people are still disadvantaged. interpreting and accessibility play a key role in this. i believe that deaf, deafblind and hard-of-hearing students and their parents should be given the opportunity, through pre-school services or school education, to learn sign language in their environment. finally, i ask the commission to maintain in the long term the already concluded european pilot project insign, proposed by the european parliament, which aims to ensure unimpeded communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. i also ask the commission to examine whether equal access to education is being provided to deaf, hard of hearing and deafblind children in the member states.
mr president air pollution is the main cause of damage to our ecosystems and, as we heard from the speaker, it is responsible for the premature deaths of 400,000 people in europe. this is a cross-border issue and therefore the regulation at eu level is understandable. the current amendment sets national emission limit values for each pollutant for 2020 and 30. this is true, but it cannot fully meet the requirement that these values be realistic and that they do not hit any sector more strongly. it is not by chance that the situation in agriculture, livestock farming and the strict limits on ammonia emissions have been mentioned several times. it should have been taken into account that this sector has already experienced a 30% decrease since 1990. the commission has also received comments from interested parties, including from the hungarian authorities. we must also consider this in the light of our position on one of the most dangerous pollutants, car pollution. it seems that the automotive industry is coming to terms with the fact that it will not have to meet the requirements that have been known for eight years, it will get out of the way, and in this, of course, it will have a partner, the european commission, working with it. this is unacceptable!
it's a two-card draw. - mr president! i would like to hear the opinion of the representative of the people's party anyway, because it seems that although i myself very much agree with what has been said here, i would not be very, very, very satisfied. i ask them, i know you've come this far, but shouldn't you be working towards even more ambitious goals starting tomorrow? like, for example, to ban fossil fuels by 2050?
it's a two-card draw. madam president, mr. representative, i would like to thank you for your support. you're saying we need to double-check donald trump's activities. well, i think we're past that, there's a lot of attention on it. i think that europe should be taking action now, as this european parliament should, to send a very, very clear message to the new american administration that we will not tolerate their attempts to reverse world trends on their own. do you agree with that?
in writing. – at cop22, parties reaffirmed their collective commitment to implement the paris agreement – despite the outcome of the us elections. unfortunately, the eu has also failed to put forward any new measures to help close the emission gap, to hold global warming to well below 2°c, and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1,5°c. thus, cop24 in 2018 will be the next moment for countries to increase their ambition and scale up emission reduction pledges, and the eu’s leadership is crucial. we must start walking the talk and prioritise energy transition by ramping up our own policies and inadequate climate and energy targets. to this end, now we need an ambitious energy winter package for 2030 which promotes energy savings and efficiency measures, high renewables penetration as well as proper governance of the energy union. however, it seems that ec rather wants to subsidise new fossil fuel capacities and undermine market access for renewables. the credibility of the eu and our common future is at stake. we need to take commitments made in paris seriously: substantially reducing ghg emissions in the short term and bringing emissions to zero in the longer term –it is our only chance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rules of procedure of parliament for 2018.
in writing. ‒ a technical decision that i supported.
in writing. ‒ eighty-nine meps tabled a motion for a resolution initiating proceedings before the european court of justice on the compatibility of the eu-canada free trade agreement (ceta) with the eu's basic treaties. in particular, the court was asked to give an opinion on the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism (isds). this procedure allows global companies to sue member countries in a private court if they consider that the state restriction on their activities has caused them to lose profits. the restriction may be for environmental, public health or other socioeconomic reasons, in the enforcement of which a sovereign government acts with the mandate received from the population. nevertheless, its decisions are subject to appeal, and the said court proceedings often award substantial sums to the investment firm. the european parliament voted a stunning 419 to 258 against and 22 abstentions to reject the motion. it is clear that the 'no' vote represents the interests of global economic operators, even at the cost of an international agreement which they support, which may be contrary to the eu treaties. of course, i voted yes to the motion.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on a procedural question on the canada-european union free trade agreement. the entry into force of the fta by the union is expected to be voted on by the european parliament in december this year, which will be the date for a decision on the merits. in addition to the european parliament, member states, among others, have the possibility of seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this or any other question relating to the agreement, even after entry into force by the union.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on a procedural question on the canada-european union free trade agreement. the entry into force of the fta by the union is expected to be voted on by the european parliament in december this year, which will be the date for a decision on the merits. in addition to the european parliament, member states, among others, have the possibility of seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this or any other question relating to the agreement, even after entry into force by the union.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on a procedural question on the canada-european union free trade agreement. the entry into force of the fta by the union is expected to be voted on by the european parliament in december this year, which will be the date for a decision on the merits. in addition to the european parliament, member states, among others, have the possibility of seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this or any other question relating to the agreement, even after entry into force by the union.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on a procedural question on the canada-european union free trade agreement. the entry into force of the fta by the union is expected to be voted on by the european parliament in december this year, which will be the date for a decision on the merits. in addition to the european parliament, member states, among others, have the possibility of seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this or any other question relating to the agreement, even after entry into force by the union.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on a procedural question on the canada-european union free trade agreement. the european parliament is expected to vote on the entry into force of the fta by the union in december this year, so a decision on its merits will be taken then. in addition to the european parliament, member states, among others, have the possibility of seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this or any other question relating to the agreement, even after entry into force by the union.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on a procedural question on the canada-european union free trade agreement. the entry into force of the fta by the union is expected to be voted on by the european parliament in december this year, which will be the date for a decision on the merits. in addition to the european parliament, member states, among others, have the possibility of seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this or any other question relating to the agreement, even after entry into force by the union.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on a procedural question on the canada-european union free trade agreement. the entry into force of the fta by the union is expected to be voted on by the european parliament in december this year, which will be the date for a decision on the merits. in addition to the european parliament, member states, among others, have the possibility of seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this or any other question relating to the agreement, even after entry into force by the union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's legal experts found the ceta proposal compatible with the treaties. at belgium's request, the european court of justice is already examining the compatibility of the treaties and the section on the settlement of disputes between an investor and the state in connection with investments will not apply until the court of justice has delivered an opinion on the matter. if the draft submitted were to be adopted, ceta would not be ratified until the court had ruled on the matter, which would postpone the entry into force of the agreement, which had been under discussion for seven years, by another two years. that's why i didn't support the motion.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on a procedural question on the canada-european union free trade agreement. the entry into force of the fta by the union is expected to be voted on by the european parliament in december this year, which will be the date for a decision on the merits. in addition to the european parliament, member states, among others, have the possibility of seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this or any other question relating to the agreement, even after entry into force by the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution, as i also consider the entry into force of the ceta trade agreement with canada to be useful and necessary. however, i would have considered a further step, which was fully explored and based on the court's examination, to be desirable from a democratic perspective. while this was not the majority view in the vote, i note that in my own view, during the preliminary parliamentary negotiations on the convention, a number of safeguards were established through compromises and mutual guarantees that the convention, including its part on the international court of justice (icj), does not harm the interests of the eu and its member states and european citizens, while at the same time offering useful opportunities to develop our economic and trade relations with canada.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on a procedural question on the canada-european union free trade agreement. the entry into force of the fta by the union is expected to be voted on by the european parliament in december this year, which will be the date for a decision on the merits. in addition to the european parliament, member states, among others, have the possibility of seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this or any other question relating to the agreement, even after entry into force by the union.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the leading environmental cause of death in the european union, leading to 400 000 premature deaths per year. the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants aims to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment throughout the union. the new rules require member states to reduce their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (nmvocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (volatile dust with a diameter of less than 2,5 micrometres). the biggest problem for hungary from the outset was the level of its 2030 reduction commitment for ammonia and small particulate matter (pm2,5) emissions related to residential heating, which affect agricultural performance. it was also disputed whether the proposal includes a regulation of methane emissions, given that methane is not an air pollutant but a greenhouse gas and would therefore be better addressed in the area of climate protection. as a result of our position during the lengthy negotiations, the targets in the adopted version can be met from a technical point of view and, under pressure from the member states, methane was finally removed from the regulation. although the dutch presidency pursued the negotiations with considerable effort and used unusual procedural techniques to force the final decision, i voted in favour of the agreement in the light of the above.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the leading environmental cause of death in the european union, leading to 400 000 premature deaths per year. the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants aims to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment throughout the union. the new rules require member states to reduce their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (nmvocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (volatile dust with a diameter of less than 2,5 micrometres). the biggest problem for hungary from the outset was the level of its 2030 reduction commitment for ammonia and small particulate matter (pm2,5) emissions related to residential heating, which affect agricultural performance. it was also disputed whether the proposal includes a regulation of methane emissions, given that methane is not an air pollutant but a greenhouse gas and would therefore be better addressed in the area of climate protection. as a result of our position during the lengthy negotiations, the targets in the adopted version can be met from a technical point of view and, under pressure from the member states, methane was finally removed from the regulation. although the dutch presidency pursued the negotiations with considerable effort and used unusual procedural techniques to force the final decision, i voted in favour of the agreement in the light of the above.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the leading environmental cause of death in the european union, leading to 400 000 premature deaths per year. the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants aims to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment throughout the union. the new rules require member states to reduce their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (nmvocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (volatile dust with a diameter of less than 2,5 micrometres). the biggest problem for hungary from the outset was the level of its 2030 reduction commitment for ammonia and small particulate matter (pm2,5) emissions related to residential heating, which affect agricultural performance. it was also questioned whether the proposal would regulate methane emissions, given that methane is not an air pollutant but a greenhouse gas and would therefore be better addressed in the area of climate protection. as a result of our position during the lengthy negotiations, the targets in the adopted version can be met from a technical point of view and, under pressure from the member states, methane was finally removed from the regulation. although the dutch presidency pursued the negotiations with considerable effort and used unusual procedural and technical solutions to force the final decision, i voted in favour of the agreement in the light of the above.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the leading environmental cause of death in the european union, leading to 400 000 premature deaths per year. the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants aims to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment throughout the union. the new rules require member states to reduce their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (nmvocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (volatile dust with a diameter of less than 2,5 micrometres). the biggest problem for hungary from the outset was the level of its 2030 reduction commitment for ammonia and small particulate matter (pm2,5) emissions related to residential heating, which affect agricultural performance. it was also disputed whether the proposal includes a regulation of methane emissions, given that methane is not an air pollutant but a greenhouse gas and would therefore be better addressed in the area of climate protection. as a result of our position during the lengthy negotiations, the targets in the adopted version can be met from a technical point of view and, under pressure from the member states, methane was finally removed from the regulation. although the dutch presidency pursued the negotiations with considerable effort and used unusual procedural techniques to force the final decision, i voted in favour of the agreement in the light of the above.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the leading environmental cause of death in the european union, leading to 400 000 premature deaths per year. the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants aims to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment throughout the union. the new rules require member states to reduce their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (nmvocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (volatile dust with a diameter of less than 2,5 micrometres). the biggest problem for hungary from the outset was the level of its 2030 reduction commitment for ammonia and small particulate matter (pm2,5) emissions related to residential heating, which affect agricultural performance. it was also disputed whether the proposal would regulate methane emissions, given that methane is not an air pollutant but a greenhouse gas and would therefore be better addressed in the area of climate protection. as a result of our position during the lengthy negotiations, the targets in the adopted version can be met from a technical point of view and, under pressure from the member states, methane was finally removed from the regulation.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the leading environmental cause of death in the european union, leading to 400 000 premature deaths per year. the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants aims to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment throughout the union. the new rules require member states to reduce their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (nmvocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (volatile dust with a diameter of less than 2,5 micrometres). the biggest problem for hungary from the outset was the level of its 2030 reduction commitment for ammonia and small particulate matter (pm2,5) emissions related to residential heating, which affect agricultural performance. it was also questioned whether the proposal would regulate methane emissions, given that methane is not an air pollutant but a greenhouse gas and would therefore be better addressed in the area of climate protection. as a result of our position during the lengthy negotiations, the targets in the adopted version can be met from a technical point of view and, under pressure from the member states, methane was finally removed from the regulation. although the dutch presidency pursued the negotiations with considerable effort and used unusual procedural and technical solutions to force the final decision, i voted in favour of the agreement in the light of the above.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the leading environmental cause of death in the european union, leading to 400 000 premature deaths per year. the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants aims to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment throughout the union. the new rules require member states to reduce their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (nmvocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (volatile dust with a diameter of less than 2,5 micrometres). the biggest problem for hungary from the outset was the level of its 2030 reduction commitment for ammonia and small particulate matter (pm2,5) emissions related to residential heating, which affect agricultural performance. it was also disputed whether the proposal includes a regulation of methane emissions, given that methane is not an air pollutant but a greenhouse gas and would therefore be better addressed in the area of climate protection. as a result of our position during the lengthy negotiations, the targets in the adopted version can be met from a technical point of view and, under pressure from the member states, methane was finally removed from the regulation. although the dutch presidency pursued the negotiations with considerable effort and used unusual procedural and technical solutions to force the final decision, i voted in favour of the agreement in the light of the above.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council the adoption of a directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has proposed that parliament adopt the commission proposal at first reading, with 118 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the leading environmental cause of death in the european union, leading to 400 000 premature deaths per year. the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants aims to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment throughout the union. the new rules require member states to reduce their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (nmvocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (volatile dust with a diameter of less than 2,5 micrometres). the biggest problem for hungary from the outset was the level of its 2030 reduction commitment for ammonia and small particulate matter (pm2,5) emissions related to residential heating, which affect agricultural performance. it was also questioned whether the proposal would regulate methane emissions, given that methane is not an air pollutant but a greenhouse gas and would therefore be better addressed in the area of climate protection. as a result of our position during the lengthy negotiations, the targets in the adopted version can be met from a technical point of view and, under pressure from the member states, methane was finally removed from the regulation. although the dutch presidency pursued the negotiations with considerable effort and used unusual procedural and technical solutions to force the final decision, i voted in favour of the agreement in the light of the above.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it makes ambitious proposals to the european commission's proposal. important compromises have been reached in the legislative process of the ep, and i trust that the member states will actively support it. in fact, i think that if we could take faster and more decisive action to reduce emissions, the 2030 target could be reached even sooner. as the report states, air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths in europe each year, but it does not stop there: the entire ecosystem is threatened by emissions from human activities. everything has a huge cost, so the sooner we get rid of it, the sooner we can spend this huge amount of money on something else, like a proper health care system or a real education that gives you real knowledge. i believe that a comprehensive approach covering all sectors is needed.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the leading environmental cause of death in the european union, leading to 400 000 premature deaths per year. the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants aims to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment throughout the union. the new rules require member states to reduce their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (nmvocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (volatile dust with a diameter of less than 2,5 micrometres). the biggest problem for hungary from the outset was the level of its 2030 reduction commitment for ammonia and small particulate matter (pm2,5) emissions related to residential heating, which affect agricultural performance. it was also disputed whether the proposal includes a regulation of methane emissions, given that methane is not an air pollutant but a greenhouse gas and would therefore be better addressed in the area of climate protection. as a result of our position during the lengthy negotiations, the targets in the adopted version can be met from a technical point of view and, under pressure from the member states, methane was finally removed from the regulation. although the dutch presidency pursued the negotiations with considerable effort and used unusual procedural and technical solutions to force the final decision, i voted in favour of the agreement in the light of the above.
in writing. ‒ fact-based policymaking should be a cornerstone of eu law. legislation should be based on detailed and comprehensive impact assessments that show why a piece of legislation addresses the central question of the necessity and proportionality of the proposal and how it measures whether action at union level would be most effective. the answer is clear: air quality is a major transboundary problem for human health and the environment, which seriously affects the lives of all eu citizens and requires immediate action. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis that erupted in 2007 highlighted the problems and shortcomings of banks' risk and crisis management practices. in 2011, the basel committee on banking supervision published its basel iii framework, which contains new global regulatory standards for the capital adequacy and liquidity of banks and their implementation plan. most importantly, banks need to raise their current capital. they'll have to increase the capital ratio from 4% to 6%. the core capital must cover the bank's revenue losses in a crisis situation. the other element of basel iii is the appropriate design of liquidity requirements. financial institutions shall have sufficient liquid assets to cover their so-called net liquidity outflows for 30 days in a situation of severe stress. the motion for a resolution is about finalising the basel iii agreement. the various provisions will be phased in by 2019. i supported the motion for a resolution because it reduces the likelihood of financial crises. but i also want to emphasize that the only way to solve this problem once and for all is to go back to the pre-1990s glass-steagall act, which prohibits commercial banks from having investment banking functions or owning securities firms.
in writing. the causes of the financial crisis that emerged in 2007 are deep-rooted and have been clear to those familiar with the banking system's operational features for some time, with the most superficial manifestations being problems and shortcomings in banks' risk and crisis management practices. in order to avoid further similar crises, partial solutions are offered by the basel iii framework, which includes new global regulatory standards for the capital adequacy and liquidity of banks and the related implementation plan. the resolution is a clear step forward in the financial security of european citizens and should be supported even if a comprehensive solution cannot be achieved in this way.
in writing. ‒ the basel iii agreement of 2010 was an international response to the financial crisis of 2008-2010 developed by the basel committee on banking supervision (bcbs). it was intended to gradually strengthen the operational security of commercial banks, in particular by requiring them to increase the core‐capital ratio from the current 4% to 6%. the draft resolution of the economic and monetary committee on the finalisation of the agreement stresses two principles: firstly, that overall capital requirements should not be significantly increased, while at the same time strengthening the overall financial position of european banks; and secondly, that a level playing field should be ensured at global level, by reducing and not deepening the differences between jurisdictions and banking models. the report notes with concern that the preliminary analysis of the bcbs's recent draft suggests that the reform package at its current stage is not in line with these two principles and recommends calling on the competent bodies to review the proposals in this respect and to ensure that these principles are respected during the finalisation and monitoring of the new rules. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the finalisation of the basel iii agreement, and i welcome the work of the basel committee on banking supervision (bcbs) on consolidating global standards and principles for the prudential regulation of banks. i agree with the rapporteur that the rescue packages for banks during the crisis must not be repeated and that banks must be sufficiently recapitalised to support the real economy. i also welcome the call in the motion for greater transparency and accountability and for continued dialogue between the institutions to enhance the legitimacy and recognition of bcbs decisions. i also welcome the fact that one of the important points in the motion for a resolution is that, unlike other jurisdictions, banks play a key role in the european economy in financing households and businesses, especially smes. this should continue to be taken into account while seeking to diversify the forms of financing of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls for, inter alia, a sound framework for financial stability and growth that is comprehensive and balanced, enabling it to include dynamic supervisory practices and not focusing on static regulation of mainly quantitative aspects. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly in recent times, becoming more flexible, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. these threats are taking on an increasingly diverse range of forms, both traditional and hybrid. the security of the eu member states is closely interlinked, yet member states react to common threats and risks in a disjointed and fragmented way. this lack of coordination is one of the vulnerabilities of union action. to address these problems, a thorough and substantial review of the csdp (common security and defence policy) is needed to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union. the report stresses that the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (article 42 (6) of the treaty on european union) would allow for the creation of a self-defence or a permanent self-defence structure. through csdp missions, the eu could intervene across the full spectrum of crisis management, including in the areas of crisis prevention and resolution. in addition, the eu should encourage member states to meet nato's capability targets, which require defence spending to be increased over time to at least 2% of gdp. the instruments of the csdp also promote better cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism. finally, csdp missions including border support, capacity building, military training missions and naval operations contribute to international peace and stability. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly in recent times, becoming more flexible, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. these threats are taking on an increasingly diverse range of forms, both traditional and hybrid. the security of the eu member states is closely interlinked, yet member states react to common threats and risks in a disjointed and fragmented way. this lack of coordination is one of the vulnerabilities of union action. to address these problems, a thorough and substantial review of the csdp (common security and defence policy) is needed to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union. the report stresses that the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (article 42 (6) of the treaty on european union) would allow for the creation of a self-defence or a permanent self-defence structure. through csdp missions, the eu could intervene across the full spectrum of crisis management, including in the areas of crisis prevention and resolution. in addition, the eu should encourage member states to meet nato's capability targets, which require defence spending to be increased over time to at least 2% of gdp. finally, csdp missions including border support, capacity building, military training missions and naval operations contribute to international peace and stability. in line with the hungarian position, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly in recent times, becoming more flexible, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. these threats are taking on an increasingly diverse range of forms, both traditional and hybrid. the security of the eu member states is closely interlinked, yet member states react to common threats and risks in a disjointed and fragmented way. this lack of coordination is one of the vulnerabilities of union action. to address these problems, a thorough review of the csdp (common security and defence policy) is needed to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union. the report stresses that the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (article 42 (6) of the treaty on european union) would allow for the creation of a self-defence or a permanent self-defence structure. through csdp missions, the eu could intervene across the full spectrum of crisis management, including in the areas of crisis prevention and resolution. in addition, the eu should encourage member states to meet nato's capability targets, which require defence spending to increase over time to at least 2% of gdp. the instruments of the csdp also promote better cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism. finally, csdp missions including border support, capacity building, military training missions and naval operations contribute to international peace and stability. in line with the hungarian position, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly in recent times, becoming more flexible, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. these threats are increasingly diverse, both traditional and hybrid. the security of the eu member states is closely interlinked, yet member states react to common threats and risks in a disjointed and fragmented way. this lack of coordination is one of the most serious vulnerabilities of union action. to address these problems, a thorough and substantial review of the csdp (common security and defence policy) is needed to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union. the report stresses that the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (article 42 (6) of the treaty on european union) would allow for the creation of a self-defence or a permanent self-defence structure. through csdp missions, the eu could intervene across the full spectrum of crisis management, including in the areas of crisis prevention and resolution. in addition, the eu should encourage member states to meet nato's capability targets, which require defence spending to be increased over time to at least 2% of gdp. the instruments of the csdp also promote better cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism. finally, csdp missions including border support, capacity building, military training missions and naval operations contribute to international peace and stability.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly in recent times. it's become more complex, more dangerous, and less predictable. these threats are taking on an increasingly diverse range of forms, both traditional and hybrid. the security of the eu member states is closely interlinked, yet member states react to common threats and risks in a disjointed and fragmented way. this lack of coordination is one of the vulnerabilities of union action. addressing these problems requires a thorough review of the common security and defence policy (csdp) to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union. the report emphasises that the establishment of permanent structured cooperation would allow for the establishment of self-defence or a permanent self-defence structure. through csdp missions, the eu could intervene across the full spectrum of crisis management, including in the areas of crisis prevention and resolution. in addition, the eu should encourage member states to meet nato's capability targets, which require defence spending to be increased over time to at least 2% of gdp. the instruments of the csdp also promote better cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism. finally, csdp missions including border support, capacity building, military training missions and naval operations contribute to international peace and stability. in line with the hungarian position, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly in recent times, becoming more flexible, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. these threats are taking on an increasingly diverse range of forms, both traditional and hybrid. the security of the eu member states is closely interlinked, yet member states react to common threats and risks in a disjointed and fragmented way. this lack of coordination is one of the vulnerabilities of union action. to address these problems, a thorough and substantial review of the csdp (common security and defence policy) is needed to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union. the report stresses that the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (article 42 (6) of the treaty on european union) would allow for the creation of a self-defence or a permanent self-defence structure. through csdp missions, the eu could intervene across the full spectrum of crisis management, including in the areas of crisis prevention and resolution. in addition, the eu should encourage member states to meet nato's capability targets, which require defence spending to be increased over time to at least 2% of gdp. the instruments of the csdp also promote better cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism. in line with the hungarian position, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on foreign affairs notes that the european security environment has deteriorated significantly, outlines the new security challenges facing the union and calls on the eu to adapt to these security challenges, in particular by making more effective use of the csdp instruments in line with other external and internal instruments, and calls for better cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism. as no country can face the current security challenges alone, it calls for a thorough and substantial review of the common security and defence policy, so that the eu and its member states can make a decisive contribution to the union's security, to the management of international crises and to the exercise of the eu's strategic autonomy. it urges close cooperation with nato and that the eu encourage its member states to meet nato's capability targets, which require defence spending to be increased to at least 2% of gdp. it called for the deepening of european defence cooperation and the establishment of a permanent eu command for csdp missions and operations, both civilian and military. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly in recent times, becoming more flexible, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. these threats are taking on an increasingly diverse range of forms, both traditional and hybrid. the security of the eu member states is closely interlinked, yet member states react to common threats and risks in a disjointed and fragmented way. this lack of coordination is one of the vulnerabilities of union action. to address these problems, a thorough and substantial review of the csdp (common security and defence policy) is needed to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union. the report stresses that the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (article 42 (6) of the treaty on european union) would allow for the creation of a self-defence or a permanent self-defence structure. through csdp missions, the eu could intervene across the full spectrum of crisis management, including in the areas of crisis prevention and resolution. in addition, the eu should encourage member states to meet nato's capability targets, which require defence spending to be increased over time to at least 2% of gdp. the instruments of the csdp also promote better cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism. finally, csdp missions contribute to international peace and stability. in line with the hungarian position, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it gives an accurate, realistic, yet critical picture of the problems facing the eu's common security and defence policy, while also indicating possible ways forward, in particular by creating a greater degree of defence autonomy for europe. it points out that the mass of overlaps and parallels would clearly require coordination of defence capabilities and assets of the member states and a substantial use of existing capabilities and assets at european level (e.g. battlegroup units). the political and military rationale for a closer and more autonomous european defence is given convincing support in this report by the deteriorating security environment in the eu over the years, the new types of security challenges, the threats of terrorism, cyber and hybrid threats, and above all the military policy threat in our immediate southern and eastern neighbourhood. in my own experience, the report also suggests that governments cannot be the only ones to rely on solidarity between member states in defence matters, because the unilateral, selfish approach to eu solidarity, the disregard for their own defence capabilities, does not prevent the leaders of some countries from taking the defence guarantees of their allies for granted. i believe that this report and this parliament's decision can help to raise awareness at eu level of the need to build political and legal safeguards into the future csdp and defence union to prevent such unilateral behaviour by member states.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly in recent times, becoming more flexible, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. these threats are taking on an increasingly diverse range of forms, both traditional and hybrid. the security of the eu member states is closely interlinked, yet member states react to common threats and risks in a disjointed and fragmented way. to address these problems, a thorough and substantial review of the csdp (common security and defence policy) is needed to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union. the report stresses that the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (article 42 (6) of the treaty on european union) would allow for the creation of a self-defence or a permanent self-defence structure. through csdp missions, the eu could intervene across the full spectrum of crisis management, including in the areas of crisis prevention and resolution. in addition, the eu should encourage member states to meet nato's capability targets, which require defence spending to be increased over time to at least 2% of gdp. the instruments of the csdp also promote better cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism. finally, csdp missions including border support, capacity building, military training missions and naval operations contribute to international peace and stability. in line with the hungarian position, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly, becoming more flexible, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. threats are both traditional and hybrid, with state and non-state actors, coming from the south and the east, and affecting member states differently. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the document stresses that anti-eu propaganda aims to divide member states, paralyse decision-making processes, undermine the credibility of the eu institutions and undermine the european narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. the report calls on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the union against the hate speech of intolerant, radical preachers, which is a fertile ground for the growth of terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda. the report therefore stresses the importance of quality journalism, education and training for high-quality analysis and calls on the commission to put forward legislative initiatives to combat targeted disinformation more effectively. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ today, in line with the position of the european people's party, i voted with my fidesz colleagues in favour of a report to strengthen strategic communication to counter anti-eu propaganda by third parties. the document stresses that anti-eu propaganda aims to divide member states, paralyse decision-making processes, undermine the credibility of the eu institutions and undermine the european narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. the report calls on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the union against the hate speech of intolerant, radical preachers, which is a fertile ground for the growth of terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda. the report therefore stresses the importance of quality journalism, education and training for high-quality analysis and calls on the commission to put forward legislative initiatives to combat targeted disinformation more effectively.
in writing. ‒ today, in line with the position of the european people's party, i voted with my fidesz colleagues in favour of a report to strengthen strategic communication to counter anti-eu propaganda by third parties. the document stresses that anti-eu propaganda aims to divide member states, paralyse decision-making processes, undermine the credibility of the eu institutions and undermine the european narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. the report calls on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the union against the hate speech of intolerant, radical preachers, which is a fertile ground for the growth of terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda. the report therefore stresses the importance of quality journalism, education and training for high-quality analysis and calls on the commission to put forward legislative initiatives to combat targeted disinformation more effectively.
in writing. ‒ today, in line with the position of the european people's party, i voted with my fidesz colleagues in favour of a report to strengthen strategic communication to counter anti-eu propaganda by third parties. the document stresses that anti-eu propaganda aims to divide member states, paralyse decision-making processes, undermine the credibility of the eu institutions and undermine the european narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. the report calls on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the union against the hate speech of intolerant, radical preachers, which is a fertile ground for the growth of terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda. the report therefore stresses the importance of quality journalism, education and training for high-quality analysis and calls on the commission to put forward legislative initiatives to combat targeted disinformation more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on strengthening strategic communication to counter anti-eu propaganda by third parties. the document stresses that anti-eu propaganda aims to divide member states, paralyse decision-making processes, undermine the credibility of the eu institutions and undermine the european narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. the report calls on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the union against the hate speech of intolerant, radical preachers, which is a fertile ground for the growth of terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda. the report therefore stresses the important role of training journalists in ensuring a high level of quality analysis and calls on the commission to put forward legislative initiatives against targeted disinformation.
in writing. ‒ today, in line with the position of the european people's party, i voted with my fidesz colleagues in favour of a report to strengthen strategic communication to counter anti-eu propaganda by third parties. the document stresses that anti-eu propaganda aims to divide member states, paralyse decision-making processes, undermine the credibility of the eu institutions and undermine the european narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. the report calls on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the union against the hate speech of intolerant, radical preachers, which is a fertile ground for the growth of terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda. the report therefore stresses the importance of quality journalism, education and training for high-quality analysis and calls on the commission to put forward legislative initiatives to combat targeted disinformation more effectively.
in writing. ‒ today, in line with the position of the european people's party, i voted with my fidesz colleagues in favour of a report to strengthen strategic communication to counter anti-eu propaganda by third parties. the document stresses that anti-eu propaganda aims to divide member states, paralyse decision-making processes, undermine the credibility of the eu institutions and undermine the european narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. the report calls on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the union against the hate speech of intolerant, radical preachers, which is a fertile ground for the growth of terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda. the report therefore stresses the importance of quality journalism, education and training for high-quality analysis and calls on the commission to put forward legislative initiatives to combat targeted disinformation more effectively.
in writing. it is common for reporting agents to create a link by making something less acceptable a vote on the basis of health, human or minority rights, the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. i've seen a lot of stuff on the ep, but i've never seen anything this rough. to link in one report the activities of the national media of a rule of law with the propaganda machine of the world's current largest terrorist organization, equating the two, is mind-boggling. but this was further exacerbated by the fact that the eu's propaganda campaign was used by the rapporteur to fight the state actor. he doesn't want to harass terrorists, because he thinks they're harmless. anyone with eyes and ears open to the world can see the unprecedented media dominance of overseas-funded ngos and the press, but also the writings of udo ulfkotte and other fact-finders. does this kind of crude propaganda intervention not please the people involved? it is deeply irresponsible, it is blatantly extreme, and it is very sad that the democracy that exists is so deeply flawed.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on foreign affairs aims to tackle radicalism and terrorist propaganda through enhanced cooperation between member states and the eu. it specifically addresses two threats: russia's use of existing relations and meetings with eu partners for propaganda purposes and to publicly undermine the union's common position, rather than for genuine dialogue, and the disinformation and radicalisation methods of isil/daesh information warfare. it outlines the eu's strategy against propaganda, which focuses on actively promoting respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, as support for freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, the right of access to information and media independence in neighbouring countries strengthens the eu's counter-propaganda efforts. calls for the strengthening of media pluralism and the objective, impartiality and independence of the media, including non-state actors, in the european union and its neighbourhood, and expresses its consternation at the problems with media independence and freedom in some eu member states; i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ today, in line with the position of the european people's party, i voted with my fidesz colleagues in favour of a report to strengthen strategic communication to counter anti-eu propaganda by third parties. the document stresses that anti-eu propaganda aims to divide member states, paralyse decision-making processes, undermine the credibility of the eu institutions and undermine the european narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. the report calls on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the union against the hate speech of intolerant, radical preachers, which is a fertile ground for the growth of terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda. the report therefore stresses the importance of quality journalism, education and training for high-quality analysis and calls on the commission to put forward legislative initiatives to combat targeted disinformation more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i have refrained from accepting the report because, while it identifies a major and novel challenge to european integration and peace on the continent, and while it makes proposals to exempt it, it also makes statements with which i cannot identify. however, i was particularly attentive to the russian propaganda efforts described in the report, among others, because they are also strongly present in my own country, in particular with regard to the indications of financial and political support for far-right forces, influence on public opinion and undermining eu membership. this is particularly difficult to counter in this case, as moscow can count on a partner in the orbán regime, not an opponent, who follows and openly praises putin's political methods and essentially implements putin's scenario in migration and eu ambitions. the common eu-wide response outlined in the report is also important in this case because it is an internal phenomenon, the government of an eu member state, which can easily find followers within the union if the union is not able to put a stop to this dangerous political game at the highest level. i believe that this is not only part of, but a precondition for, the effective implementation of the communication strategy against external anti-eu propaganda.
in writing. ‒ today, in line with the position of the european people's party, i voted with my fidesz colleagues in favour of a report to strengthen strategic communication to counter anti-eu propaganda by third parties. the document stresses that anti-eu propaganda aims to divide member states, paralyse decision-making processes, undermine the credibility of the eu institutions and undermine the european narrative based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. the report calls on the eu and its member states to take consistent action across the union against the hate speech of intolerant, radical preachers, which is a fertile ground for the growth of terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda. the report therefore stresses the important role of quality journalism, education and training in ensuring high standards of quality analysis and calls on the commission to put forward legislative initiatives to combat targeted disinformation more effectively.
in writing. ‒ the union is committed to ensuring that its action at international level is in line with principles such as democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, freedom of the media, access to information, freedom of expression and media pluralism. the union and european values are under attack in many ways, including by russian state propaganda. we have to do something about it. but this proposal was a bad approach, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ deaf people have the right to participate in politics. there is a need for qualified sign language interpreters to provide unimpeded access to the political process during elections, public consultations and other events. sign language interpreting is not a service, but a basic human right: it is the mother tongue of the person who uses sign language. interpreting enables deaf and deafblind people to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. the decision invites the commission to examine the situation regarding equal access to education for deaf and hard of hearing children in the member states and to fully implement the insign european pilot project aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. if one of the elements of the access to education, employment and training triangle is removed, deaf people remain at a disadvantage: interpretation and accessibility play a key role. deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing pupils and their parents should therefore be given the opportunity to learn the national or regional sign language used in their environment, through pre-school services or school education. in hungary, this is guaranteed by law, and it's time to make this a daily practice and for all members of society to pay attention to people with disabilities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ deaf people have the right to participate in politics. there is a need for qualified sign language interpreters to provide unimpeded access to the political process during elections, public consultations and other events. sign language interpreting is not a service, but a basic human right: it is the mother tongue of the person who uses sign language. interpreting enables deaf and deafblind people to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. the decision invites the commission to examine the situation regarding equal access to education for deaf and hard of hearing children in the member states and to fully implement the insign european pilot project aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. if the first element of the triangle of education/employment/access is removed, deaf people will continue to be disadvantaged: interpretation and accessibility are key. deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing pupils and their parents should therefore be given the opportunity to learn the national or regional sign language used in their environment, through pre-school services or school education. i am proud that in hungary this is guaranteed by law, it is time to make this a daily practice and all members of society pay attention to people with disabilities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ deaf people have the right to participate in politics. there is a need for qualified sign language interpreters to provide unimpeded access to the political process during elections, public consultations and other events. sign language interpreting is not a service, but a basic human right: it is the mother tongue of the person who uses sign language. interpreting enables deaf and deafblind people to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. the decision invites the commission to examine the situation regarding equal access to education for deaf and hard of hearing children in the member states and to fully implement the insign european pilot project aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. if the first element of the triangle of education/employment/access is removed, deaf people will continue to be disadvantaged: interpretation and accessibility are key. deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing pupils and their parents should therefore be given the opportunity to learn the national or regional sign language used in their environment, through pre-school services or school education. i am proud that in hungary this is guaranteed by law, it is time to make this a daily practice and all members of society pay attention to people with disabilities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ deaf people have the right to participate in politics. there is a need for qualified sign language interpreters to provide unimpeded access to the political process during elections, public consultations and other events. sign language interpreting is not a service, but a basic human right: it is the mother tongue of the person who uses sign language. interpreting enables deaf and deafblind people to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. the decision invites the commission to examine the situation regarding equal access to education for deaf and hard of hearing children in the member states and to fully implement the insign european pilot project aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. if the first element of the triangle of education/employment/access is removed, deaf people will continue to be disadvantaged: interpretation and accessibility are key. deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing pupils and their parents should therefore be given the opportunity to learn the national or regional sign language used in their environment, through pre-school services or school education. i am proud that in hungary this is guaranteed by law, it is time to make this a daily practice and all members of society pay attention to people with disabilities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ deaf people have the right to participate in politics. there is a need for qualified sign language interpreters to provide unimpeded access to the political community during elections, public consultations and other events. sign language interpreting is not a service, but a basic human right: it is the mother tongue of the person who uses sign language. interpreting enables deaf and deafblind people to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. the decision invites the commission to examine the situation regarding equal access to education for deaf and hard of hearing children in the member states and to fully implement the insign european pilot project aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. if the first element of the triangle of education/employment/access is removed, deaf people will continue to be disadvantaged: interpretation and accessibility are key. deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing pupils and their parents should therefore be given the opportunity to learn the national or regional sign language used in their environment, through pre-school services or school education. i am proud that this is already provided by law in hungary, it is time to make this a daily practice and that all members of society pay attention to people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ deaf people have the right to participate in politics. there is a need for qualified sign language interpreters to provide unimpeded access to the political process during elections, public consultations and other events. sign language interpreting is not a service, but a basic human right: it is the mother tongue of the person who uses sign language. interpreting enables deaf and deafblind people to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. the decision invites the commission to examine the situation regarding equal access to education for deaf and hard of hearing children in the member states and to fully implement the insign european pilot project aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. if the first element of the triangle of education/employment/access is removed, deaf people will continue to be disadvantaged: interpretation and accessibility are key. deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing pupils and their parents should therefore be given the opportunity to learn the national or regional sign language used in their environment, through pre-school services or school education. i am proud that in hungary this is guaranteed by law, it is time to make this a daily practice and all members of society pay attention to people with disabilities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ deaf people have the right to participate in politics. there is a need for qualified sign language interpreters to provide unimpeded access to the political process during elections, public consultations and other events. sign language interpreting is not a service, but a basic human right: it is the mother tongue of the person who uses sign language. interpreting enables deaf and deafblind people to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. the decision invites the commission to examine the situation regarding equal access to education for deaf and hard of hearing children in the member states and to fully implement the insign european pilot project aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. if the first element of the triangle of education/employment/access is removed, deaf people will continue to be disadvantaged: interpretation and accessibility are key. deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing pupils and their parents should therefore be given the opportunity to learn the national or regional sign language used in their environment, through pre-school services or school education. i am proud that in hungary this is guaranteed by law, it is time to make this a daily practice and all members of society pay attention to people with disabilities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ a draft joint resolution on sign languages and qualified sign language interpreters was tabled by the gue/ngl group, on its own, and by the ppe, s&d, ecr, alde, verts/ale and efdd groups. i voted for the latter.
in writing. ‒ deaf people have the right to participate in politics. there is a need for qualified sign language interpreters to provide unimpeded access to the political process during elections, public consultations and other events. sign language interpreting is not a service, but a basic human right: it is the mother tongue of the person who uses sign language. interpreting enables deaf and deafblind people to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. the decision invites the commission to examine the situation regarding equal access to education for deaf and hard of hearing children in the member states and to fully implement the insign european pilot project aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. if the first element of the education-employment-access triangle is removed, deaf people will continue to be disadvantaged: interpretation and accessibility are key. deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing pupils and their parents should therefore be given the opportunity to learn the national or regional sign language used in their environment, through pre-school services or school education. i am proud that in hungary this is guaranteed by law, it is time to make this a daily practice and all members of society pay attention to people with disabilities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ deaf people have the right to participate in politics. there is a need for qualified sign language interpreters to provide unimpeded access to the political process during elections, public consultations and other events. sign language interpreting is not a service, but a basic human right: it is the mother tongue of the person who uses sign language. interpreting enables deaf and deafblind people to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. the decision invites the commission to examine the situation regarding equal access to education for deaf and hard of hearing children in the member states and to fully implement the insign european pilot project aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions. if one of the elements of the education-employment-access triangle is missing, deaf people remain at a disadvantage: interpretation and accessibility play a key role. deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing pupils and their parents should therefore be given the opportunity to learn the national or regional sign language used in their environment, through pre-school services or school education. i am proud that in hungary this is guaranteed by law, it is time to make this a daily practice and all members of society pay attention to people with disabilities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ as full citizens, persons with disabilities, and in particular women and children including deaf and hard of hearing persons, sign language users and non-users enjoy equal rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the resolution seeks to have the commission withdraw the most extensive renewal of the authorisation for the placing on the market in the union of herbicides containing or containing such an active substance. bentazone is a selective herbicide applied 1 to 15 days after germination of crops, which kills broadleaf weeds. a number of studies have already been published in the united kingdom on benthazone, detailing that benthazone can be diluted in groundwater and, due to the higher concentration it generates, may inhibit not only soil and crops, but also the animal world and, in particular, the reproduction of small mammals. this is an indirect threat to human health, especially since benthazone-containing herbicides are the most widely used herbicides in the eu. it is important to note that in order to refuse the authorisation, efsa again demonstrated in its scientific evaluation that it had carried out a scientific evaluation which was highly questionable from a professional point of view and superficial, ignoring the toxicity to mammals and its examination in the scientific consultation. as the motion calls for the repeal of the commission's marketing authorisation regulation, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a motion for a resolution on the renewal of the approval of the active substance bentazone under regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011. the draft resolution proposes to establish that the draft commission implementing regulation exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009, and that the commission has infringed the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 and the precautionary principle as set out in article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union by applying the confirmatory information procedure to the active substance benthazone. the draft proposes that parliament invite the commission to request and assess the relevant missing information before deciding on approval, and to ask it to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance benthazone as a plant protection product. the current authorisation expires on 30 june 2017 and the european commission has proposed to extend it (until 2032). however, it was suspected that it could be detected in groundwater as a result of intensive use and that it could also have adverse effects on human reproduction. i agree with the motion that these substances should only be used responsibly and in moderation and i consider it important that only renewals of such substances should be decided on the basis of adequate scientific evidence and food safety. if there's any doubt about these chemicals, we can't use them. the motion will not immediately withdraw the authorisation of bentazone, but in the light of the precautionary principle, i am convinced that it should not be renewed immediately. a very quick, serious and comprehensive investigation is needed to prevent this. i do not consider the available assessments to be satisfactory. there are alternative ways of using them effectively and of replacing or reducing the use of traditional forms of farming. last but not least, i believe it is important to strengthen the role of phytosanitary practitioners, to tighten the authorisation procedure and the use in case of suspicion.
in writing. ‒ the active substance benthazone is a selective post-harvest plant protection agent widely used in crops against broadleaf weeds and widely used in agriculture. i voted in favour of the relevant document.
first item on the agenda is an oral question to the council and the commission on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (2016/2966(rsp)).
thank you very much for the opening thought, officer. it's even more important for us to not only have a strong vision, but also the resources behind it. the group leaders will now speak.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! what's that blowing? if you want to express an opinion, do it in the proper order and abstain from it. by the way, there was a blue card for congresswoman atkinson. will you accept this blue card? congresswoman görling would like to ask you a question.
yeah, there could be a lot more men here.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! we can have different opinions, but we can accept them and listen to each other.
madam president, please. if there is one issue that should be the consensus of the world, but for some innocuous, incomprehensible reason it still isn't, it's the issue of violence against women. it is therefore simply unacceptable that the istanbul convention has still not been ratified by all eu member states, including hungary. we know that one in three european women is affected or has been affected by some form of violence against women. the situation of women who are disadvantaged in multiple ways and who live on the periphery of society is particularly difficult, as they have few means to assert their rights. they need special attention and help. violence against women is not just a women's issue, it's a public issue that poisons, it violates democracy. a social problem requiring complex legal, social, educational and cultural measures and their consistent implementation. the first step on this path should be the ratification of the istanbul convention.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president! as in the case of tax evasion and avoidance, the creation of a european vat system free from corruption requires above all political will. only together can member states effectively tackle vat fraud and only by complete agreement can they adopt the rules necessary to remove unnecessary administrative barriers and thus make life easier for european businesses. because the more complex a system is, the easier it is to circumvent. the commission's commitment to the creation of an effective single eu vat area is therefore particularly welcome, especially as the current vat system is not able to prevent fraud. i would add that in the case of the single eu vat area, we do not necessarily agree with pilot projects which introduce different logics into the vat system. the commission estimates that vat revenue is lost every year by about 170 billion euros, of which cross-border fraud alone is worth at least 50 billion euros, although i fear that the real figures are much higher, in some places they say 1000 billion euros a year, which we lose because of our bad or malfunctioning vat system. the member states must therefore do all they can to ensure that information is exchanged effectively between them, since without this and without the coordination of tax policies between member states, the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion will never be effective. it is also appropriate that the commission closely monitor the functioning of national tax authorities, avoiding unfortunate cases such as the one in hungary, where the national tax and customs office was reported by its own staff for assisting, or at least ignoring, the fraud of tax amounts of more than eur 3 billion per year in the case of large domestic and multinational companies enjoying the protection of government circles. the hungarian government has ended this case with a public interest litigation, and we see the responsibility of the member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, as a member of the meps for wildlife group, i would like to warmly welcome the commission’s proposal, the action plan, and also i would like to say thank you to catherine bearder for the great report from the parliament. in my one minute i would like to underline just three points. the first is, and it was already mentioned, the implementation, not only of the action plan, but also of the existing eu regulation in the member states. secondly, for proper implementation of the regulation and the action plan we need strong and competent authorities in the member states. there are serious shortcomings regarding the authorities in the member states. here the commission has to give support for the member states for proper authorities, but also the commission has to control the proper implementation of the action plan and the existing regulation by the authorities in the member states, and this is lacking from time to time. thirdly, we sometimes need further legislative measures regarding the authorities, regarding environmental inspections, and we need strong sanctions against those who are violating the existing rules and who are violating the action plan.
dear officer and colleagues! this is a very important subject and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr riquet, in particular, because smes play a major role in transport on european roads and make a major contribution to the eu economy and job creation. with a small capital base, young entrepreneurs can also get involved, so the launch of transport services is a good opportunity for young entrepreneurs. however, i regret to say that i find that this positive line is contradicted by paragraph 37 of the report, which calls into question the derogation for light vehicles on the grounds that they are unjustifiably present in international traffic. it should be noted that there are no reliable data on this and that if these carriers were to comply with all the requirements for vehicles over 3,5 tonnes, this could lead to disproportionate financial and administrative burdens. therefore, the hungarian delegation cannot support this point of the report.
mr president, madam commissioner, i am really pleased that this topic has made it to the plenary agenda. it is evident and maybe normal to have a certain level of rivalry between european institutions, but i am convinced that the european parliament can help the commission’s efforts to achieve strong and sustainable deals and agreements. this is true for all policy areas, but it is very evident in the aviation sector, given the fact that it is a very complex global industry and service area. as one of the two co-legislators the european parliament could work more effectively and swiftly if it were involved in the whole negotiation process from the very beginning. i am afraid that this fact is not getting the proper level of attention. for example, at the beginning of october, the ep delegation got the opportunity to participate at the 39th plenary session of the icao in montreal, of which i was also part. we arrived for the final days of the difficult negotiations on global market-based measures (gmbm) and other dossiers. if we had been allowed to participate from an earlier stage, it would help us to understand the whole process and the reasons behind certain decisions much better. this kind of insight could help us when it comes to european legislation and the approval of these agreements in parliament. i do hope that during the icao visit this became evident for the commission as well, so we should build on this experience also when it comes to the new aviation agreements and negotiations. i kindly ask you, commissioner, to take these arguments into consideration when planning future negotiations in the aviation sector.
in writing. i am very pleased that the european commission is once again raising the issue of security of supply in the energy sector. i think the importance of this subject cannot be overstated. we in the central and eastern european parliament know exactly what it is like when energy supply is at a standstill or when systems that were once considered reliable suddenly fail because of a lack of supply. a reliable energy supply is a prerequisite for all other economic activities. a predictable, stable and affordable supply of electricity and gas is needed for the safety of business and private consumers. union integration is a unique and irreplaceable opportunity for the european member states. by linking and coordinating their existing self-sufficient energy networks, member states can operate a much more efficient and economical system. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union and its implementation in the member states. i welcome this integration in principle, but it is also very important that we do not forget one of the european union's greatest competitive advantages, the strength of the diversity of its nations. i believe that the definition of national energy mix at member state level is a feature that both encourages consultation and strengthens everyone. it is important that each member state has the possibility to determine what it builds its energy system on.
in writing. i would like to welcome the commitment of the european ombudsman to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and to play an active role in the eu's work within the framework established by article 33 (2) of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which is responsible for protecting, promoting and monitoring the implementation of the convention. i personally represent the european parliament within the eu framework and can thus see firsthand how the european ombudsman works with the european parliament to protect the rights of people with disabilities and to ensure that the eu administration is aware of its responsibilities in relation to these rights. i encourage the european ombudsman to continue his valuable work on behalf of people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis, due to its geographical location. its economy, which is based primarily on services and industry, has been sensitive to the military actions affecting the region since 2011. in this difficult situation, however, jordan stands out as a country that has welcomed a significant number of displaced persons. the conflicts in syria and iraq are depriving jordanian products of their traditional markets. the ongoing conflicts in neighbouring countries continued to disrupt jordan's external trade in 2015, with growth slowing down (2.4%) and the remaining external financing needs for 2016-2017 estimated at usd 3,2 billion. in the first half of 2016, the unemployment rate reached a record high of 14,6% of the active population (33% of young people in the labour force, 23,7% of women in the labour force). in order to overcome the economic difficulties, the european union must ensure that it supports its partner, whose policy on the reception of refugees is commendable. the objective is to ensure that the macro-financial assistance programme is put into effect as soon as possible in order to allow jordan to benefit effectively from it during this crucial period. in my view, the genuinely needy people who have been forced to flee as a result of the war and the neighbouring countries that have taken them in need need must be helped on the spot. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis, due to its geographical location. the economy, which is mainly based on services and industry, has been affected by the unrest in the region since 2011. in this difficult situation, however, jordan stands out as a country that has welcomed a significant number of displaced persons. the conflicts in syria and iraq are depriving jordanian products of their traditional markets. the ongoing conflicts in neighbouring countries continued to disrupt jordan's external trade in 2015, with growth slowing down (2.4%) and the remaining external financing needs for 2016-2017 estimated at usd 3,2 billion. in the first half of 2016, the unemployment rate reached a record high of 14,6% of the active population (33% of young people in the labour force, 23,7% of women in the labour force). in order to overcome the economic difficulties, the european union must ensure that it supports its partner, whose policy on the reception of refugees is commendable. the objective is to ensure that the macro-financial assistance programme is put into effect as soon as possible in order to allow jordan to benefit effectively from it during this crucial period. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report, as it is in line with the hungarian government's desire to provide aid on the ground to those who are in real need and who are forced to flee as a result of the war, and to the neighbouring states that are hosting them.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis, due to its geographical location. the economy, which is mainly based on services and industry, has been affected by the unrest in the region since 2011. in this difficult situation, however, jordan stands out as a country that has welcomed a significant number of displaced persons. the conflicts in syria and iraq are depriving jordanian products of their traditional markets. the ongoing conflicts in neighbouring countries continued to disrupt jordan's external trade in 2015, with growth slowing down (2.4%) and the remaining external financing needs for 2016-2017 estimated at usd 3,2 billion. in the first half of 2016, the unemployment rate reached a record high of 14,6% of the active population (33% of young people in the labour force, 23,7% of women in the labour force). in order to overcome the economic difficulties, the european union must ensure that it supports its partner, whose policy on the reception of refugees is commendable. the objective is to ensure that the macro-financial assistance programme is put into effect as soon as possible in order to allow jordan to benefit effectively from it during this crucial period. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report, as it is in line with the hungarian government's desire to provide aid on the ground to those who are in real need and who are forced to flee as a result of the war, and to the neighbouring states that are hosting them.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis, due to its geographical location. the economy, which is mainly based on services and industry, has been affected by the unrest in the region since 2011. in this difficult situation, however, jordan stands out as a country that has welcomed a significant number of displaced persons. the conflicts in syria and iraq are depriving jordanian products of their traditional markets. the ongoing conflicts in neighbouring countries continued to disrupt jordan's external trade in 2015, with growth slowing down (2.4%) and the remaining external financing needs for 2016-2017 estimated at usd 3,2 billion. in the first half of 2016, the unemployment rate reached a record high of 14,6% of the active population (33% of young people in the labour force, 23,7% of women in the labour force). in order to overcome the economic difficulties, the european union must ensure that it supports its partner, whose policy on the reception of refugees is commendable. the objective is to ensure that the macro-financial assistance programme is put into effect as soon as possible in order to allow jordan to benefit effectively from it during this crucial period. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report, as it is in line with the hungarian government's desire to provide aid on the ground to those who are in real need and who are forced to flee as a result of the war, and to the neighbouring states that are hosting them.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council the adoption of a decision on additional macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. in its report, the committee on international trade proposed that parliament adopt the commission proposal at first reading with three amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis, due to its geographical location. the economy, which is mainly based on services and industry, has been affected by the unrest that has hit the region since 2011. in this difficult situation, however, jordan stands out as a country that has welcomed a significant number of displaced persons. the conflicts in syria and iraq are depriving jordanian products of their traditional markets. the ongoing conflicts in neighbouring countries continued to disrupt jordan's external trade in 2015, with growth slowing down (2.4%) and the remaining external financing needs for 2016-2017 estimated at usd 3,2 billion. in the first half of 2016, the unemployment rate reached a record high of 14,6% of the active population (33% of young people in the labour force, 23,7% of women in the labour force). in order to overcome the economic difficulties, the european union must ensure that it supports its partner, whose policy on the reception of refugees is commendable. the objective is to ensure that the macro-financial assistance programme is put into effect as soon as possible in order to allow jordan to benefit effectively from it during this crucial period. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report, as it is in line with the hungarian government's desire to provide aid on the ground to those who are in real need and who are forced to flee as a result of the war, and to the neighbouring states that are hosting them.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the coordination of the activities and supervision of institutions providing occupational retirement provision at european level. an 'employer's pension institution' is an institution which, irrespective of its legal form, operates on a funded basis, is set up separately from any supporting undertaking or professional organisation and whose purpose is to provide pension benefits in connection with gainful employment. this is all part of the so-called three-pillar pension system, the introduction of which - mainly because of the capital-backed part, which is also the subject of this proposal - was attempted by the international monetary fund in the 1990s to impose on all the countries to which it lent. the essence of this pension system is to reduce public liability (less public pension), to make self-sufficiency mandatory through private insurance companies (i.e. to divert pension contributions from the state to private insurance companies). what the report wants is to make the capital protection scheme general in such a way that any private pension fund can provide services anywhere in this protection scheme with eu security rules of course. the whole point, of course, is that a large part of the pension contributions - in addition to a minimal portion paid to the state - could be drawn into international financial speculation, as the report clearly shows. in view of all this, i voted against the motion.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important that older people and people with disabilities are not at risk of poverty and can enjoy an adequate standard of living. an important element in combating poverty and insecurity among older people is that occupational pensions also provide adequate protection against biometric risks. when establishing a pension scheme, employers and workers or their representatives should consider the possibility of extending the pension scheme to cover old age and the risk of occupational disease and to provide a survivor's pension. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. if anything, pension schemes are a classic case of the veterinary horse. while governments expect workers to plan for their own livelihood for the rest of their lives, pension regulations are constantly being changed, with some delay in some countries and harsher regulations in others. it would be both lawful and moral to change an agreement between an individual and the state, from the first day of employment, only with or without the consent of the employee, in his favour. no more post-retirement raising and tricking. the report's stated aim of drawing a large part of the pension contributions, apart from a minimal part paid to the state, into international financial speculation is completely unacceptable. the introduction of the three-pillar pension system was also opposed by trade unions in 1997, and rightly so.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council the adoption of a directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. the economic and monetary committee states in its report that, according to the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the commission proposal does not contain any substantive amendments other than those indicated, but only the provisions of existing legislation which have not been changed and the consolidation of these amendments. the committee therefore proposes that parliament adopt the single structured act at first reading with amendments taking into account the recommendations of the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ this legislative process will improve the protection of members of occupational pension schemes and encourage the development of stable cross-border schemes. that is why i voted in favour of the report. the commission's proposal aims to improve the governance and transparency of institutions providing occupational pension schemes. the commission has also been active in promoting the development of the european audiovisual sector. the pension institutions continue to operate in accordance with national social and labour standards, so the proposal recognises the specificities of national systems. for example, it will retain national controls, but will not create eu-wide supervision. however, the text favours crossborder programmes, to which provisions should be added to prevent possible arbitrage, i.e. the possibility of market distortions. the report places a strong emphasis on national social and labour provisions, with particular regard to the protection of programme members, and introduces the concept of a duty of care to avoid competition between crossborder cooperation programmes. it is perhaps the first eu pension legislation to take environmental, social and governance factors into account in investment decisions.
in writing. ‒ i consider it important that everyone respects the right of all ethnic and religious minorities, including christians, to continue to live in dignity, equality and security in their own historical and traditional homeland and to practice their religion and beliefs fully and freely without any coercion, violence or discrimination. in order to promote mutual understanding and to combat fundamentalism, i support interfaith dialogue. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ all eight groups tabled motions for resolutions on this subject. five of them, the ecr, ppe, alde, s&d and the verts/alea groups, reached an agreement and drew up a joint compromise proposal, which i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the parliament's resolution because i am convinced that the european union, and above all the ep, as a political body, cannot leave syria without strongly protesting against the developments of the last months, the systematic murder, torture and destruction committed in the midst of the hostilities. the retaliatory bombings and attacks carried out by the troops of the assad regime and the iranian and russian military forces, under the pretext of supporting them, against innocent civilians in aleppo and elsewhere cannot be explained by any military or political interest. i agree with the call in our resolution for an immediate end to violence against civilians and for the international community to be allowed to provide humanitarian assistance as a precondition for a negotiated political settlement. this decision is also intended to support the constructive engagement of the eeas and the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy in syria in order to promote an early peace. i also think it is important that the european parliament, with regard to the future, should already be referring to the inevitability of bringing those who commit war crimes and crimes against humanity to personal responsibility.
in writing. ‒ turkey is an important strategic partner of the european union. as a candidate country, it has undertaken to uphold democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms at the highest level. the fifth point of the negotiating framework provides that, in the event of a serious and persistent breach by turkey of the principles on which the european union is founded, the commission, on its own initiative or at the request of one third of the member states, shall recommend the suspension of negotiations and propose the conditions under which negotiations may be resumed. i consider it important to stress that in the turkey-eu partnership there must be a political will to cooperate on both sides.
in writing. ‒ turkey is an important strategic partner of the european union. as a candidate country, it has undertaken to uphold democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms at the highest level. the fifth point of the negotiating framework provides that, in the event of a serious and persistent breach by turkey of the principles on which the european union is founded, the commission, on its own initiative or at the request of one third of the member states, shall recommend the suspension of negotiations and propose the conditions under which negotiations may be resumed. the eu-turkey partnership must have the political will to cooperate on both sides. turkey, however, does not demonstrate this political will, the report stresses. the government's actions since the coup attempt in july have increasingly diverted turkey from the path to europe. in its report, the european parliament strongly condemns the attempted coup in turkey, and not least the disproportionately severe measures taken subsequently during the state of emergency, which violate the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution. parliament also expressed its grave concern at the living conditions of detainees and the restrictions on freedom of expression, the press and the media. with all of this in mind, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is an important strategic partner of the european union. as a candidate country, it has undertaken to uphold democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms at the highest level. the fifth point of the negotiating framework provides that, in the event of a serious and persistent breach by turkey of the principles on which the european union is founded, the commission, on its own initiative or at the request of one third of the member states, shall recommend the suspension of negotiations and propose the conditions under which negotiations may be resumed. the eu-turkey partnership must have the political will to cooperate on both sides. turkey, however, does not demonstrate this political will, the report stresses. the government's actions since the coup attempt in july have increasingly diverted turkey from the path to europe. in its report, the european parliament strongly condemns the attempted coup in turkey, and not least the disproportionately severe measures taken subsequently during the state of emergency, which violate the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution. parliament also expressed its grave concern at the living conditions of detainees and the restrictions on freedom of expression, the press and the media. with all of this in mind, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is an important strategic partner of the european union. as a candidate country, it has undertaken to uphold democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms at the highest level. the fifth point of the negotiating framework provides that, in the event of a serious and persistent breach by turkey of the principles on which the european union is founded, the commission, on its own initiative or at the request of one third of the member states, shall recommend the suspension of negotiations and propose the conditions under which negotiations may be resumed. the eu-turkey partnership must have the political will to cooperate on both sides. turkey, however, does not demonstrate this political will, the report stresses. the government's actions since the coup attempt in july have increasingly diverted turkey from the path to europe. in its report, the european parliament strongly condemns the attempted coup in turkey, and not least the disproportionately severe measures taken subsequently during the state of emergency, which violate the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution. parliament also expressed its grave concern at the living conditions of detainees and the restrictions on freedom of expression, the press and the media. with all of this in mind, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey is an important strategic partner of the european union. as a candidate country, it has undertaken to uphold democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms at the highest level. the fifth point of the negotiating framework provides that, in the event of a serious and persistent breach by turkey of the principles on which the european union is founded, the commission, on its own initiative or at the request of one third of the member states, shall recommend the suspension of negotiations and propose the conditions under which negotiations may be resumed. the eu-turkey partnership must have the political will to cooperate on both sides. turkey, however, does not demonstrate this political will, the report stresses. the government's actions since the coup attempt in july have increasingly diverted turkey from the path to europe. in its report, the european parliament strongly condemns the attempted coup in turkey, and not least the disproportionately severe measures taken subsequently during the state of emergency, which violate the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution. parliament also expressed its grave concern at the living conditions of detainees and the restrictions on freedom of expression, the press and the media. with all of this in mind, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ all eight groups tabled motions for resolutions on this subject. six of them, the verts/ale, alde, gue/ngl, ecr, ppe and s&d groups, reached an agreement and drew up a joint compromise proposal, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ in order not to contradict myself due to my duty as vice-president, in cases where the faction votes differently from the hungarian representatives in the roll-call votes, i will not participate directly in the vote. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on. i did the same thing in this case.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because i believe that the continued inaction of the other eu institutions requires the european parliament to point out that the anti-democratic policies of the turkish government, its recent violations of civil and human rights under the pretext of dealing with the coup attempt now go beyond all international legal norms and in particular the values and law of the eu. i recognise that turkey is a particularly important partner and candidate for membership of the eu, which has a key role to play in dealing with the international migration crisis and in the fight against terrorism, but this should not be a reason for the erdogan regime to make its relationship with the eu and its member states the subject of political blackmail. the mass unlawful reprisals affecting tens of thousands of people, the persecution of the press and many other professions, the domination of political arbitrariness cannot remain without consequences in the accession process either. i believe that the copenhagen criteria apply equally to all eu members and candidates, and therefore in the present situation i agree that the eu should temporarily suspend accession negotiations until certain conditions are met.
in writing. ‒ turkey is an important strategic partner of the european union. as a candidate country, it has undertaken to uphold democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms at the highest level. the fifth point of the negotiating framework provides that, in the event of a serious and persistent breach by turkey of the principles on which the european union is founded, the commission, on its own initiative or at the request of one third of the member states, shall recommend the suspension of negotiations and propose the conditions under which negotiations may be resumed. the eu-turkey partnership must have the political will to cooperate on both sides. turkey, however, does not demonstrate this political will, the report stresses. the government's actions since the coup attempt in july have increasingly diverted turkey from the path to europe. in its report, the european parliament strongly condemns the attempted coup in turkey, and not least the disproportionately severe measures taken subsequently during the state of emergency, which violate the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution. parliament also expressed its grave concern at the living conditions of detainees and the restrictions on freedom of expression, the press and the media. with all of this in mind, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu's efforts to eliminate violence against women and girls must be part of a comprehensive plan to eliminate all forms of gender inequalities, and i therefore ask that an eu strategy to combat violence against women and gender-based violence be developed. in this hope i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ecr group tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject as an independent group, while the ppe, s&d, alde, gue/ngl and verts/ale groups tabled a joint motion for a resolution. i voted for the latter.
in writing. ‒ continuing social dialogue on violence against women is of paramount importance, as even in europe one in three women experiences these horrors. that is why i regard this motion for a resolution as important and have voted in favour of it. in addition to physical and sexual violence, which occurs mainly within families, psychological and economic harm to women is also a common problem in hungary. the statistics available on this subject are not reliable, since their accuracy is largely determined by the courage of those affected to talk about what they consider to be violence. i share the view expressed in the motion and welcome the commission's proposal to sign and ratify the accession of the union to the istanbul convention (since the convention is a mixed agreement which allows the union to accede in parallel to the accession of the member states). however, i regret that the negotiations in the council are not proceeding at the same pace and i would point out that the accession of the union to the istanbul convention does not exempt member states from ratifying the convention. the attitude of the orbán regime towards women and children is illustrated by the fact that the government has so far refused to ratify the istanbul convention, which would have made it mandatory to introduce measures to address these problems. we must strive to create a social unity and trust that provides security for all, even if it is against the will of the ruling regime.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my appreciation to the ombudsman for initiating an inquiry into the extent to which member states respect the charter of fundamental rights in the implementation of actions funded by eu funds, for example projects aimed at the institutionalisation of persons with disabilities rather than their integration into society. i support the european ombudsman in continuing these investigations to ensure the transparency and added value of the projects. i welcome the cooperation between the ombudsman and the european parliament in the eu framework of the un framework convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and in particular their call for full implementation of the convention and adequate resources for it at eu level. i support the ombudsman's efforts to address issues of discrimination, the rights of minority groups and the rights of older people. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 3 may 2016, the european ombudsman, emily oreilly, presented her annual report for 2015 to the european parliament. in its report, the committee on petitions informs that in 2015 the european ombudsman's office assisted 17 033 eu citizens. 261 complaints and 17 complaints were closed by the commission, which itself did not open an investigation. eight of these were strategic studies, dealing with key issues such as transparency in the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, whistleblowing, the european citizens' initiative, fundamental rights in eu cohesion policy and expulsion by frontex. in 145 inquiries closed by the ombudsman in 2015 (52,3% of the total number of cases), the case complained of was either resolved by the institution concerned or reached a friendly solution. in 79 cases (28,5%) no maladministration was found, in 59 cases (19,5%) no further investigation was warranted and in 30 cases (10,8%) maladministration was found. in 19 cases (2.2%) other measures were taken. the ombudsman made critical observations to the institutions in 19 cases and issued draft recommendations in 11 cases, which were accepted in full or in part by the institutions. on this basis, the committee on petitions recommended that parliament approve the report submitted for 2015. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of a report assessing the european ombudsman's activities over the past year. i agree with the generally positive assessment of the report to the ep on the results of the ombudsman's efforts, particularly in the areas of transparency of the activities of the eu institutions, conflicts of interest of eu officials, the fight against corruption, the strengthening of the lobby register and controls, the transparency of ttip, ceta and other eu-level international negotiations, whistleblower protection and other issues affecting the eu's credibility, authority and effectiveness in the eyes of its citizens. as a politician who regularly deals with citizens, i am of course aware of the narrow limits imposed by the legal basis of the european ombudsman's work, especially in the case of deficiencies, corruption and other abuses at the member state level, but in the light of the positive direction and corrective proposals that can be read from this report, i am confident that this ep decision will also contribute to future legal and practical changes in the ombudsman's work, which will also allow for the handling of such cases.
in writing. ‒ the report is about the path towards final vat and the fight against vat fraud. the vat system in the european union, which has been in place since 1993, was designed as a transitional system, but it was also exposed to the risk of fraud from the outset. despite many initiatives, fraud has not been eliminated. the commission estimates that the loss of tax revenue in the union as a whole is around eur 170 billion per year, of which disappearing trader-type criminal organisations alone account for between eur 40 and eur 60 billion per year. the current coexistence of many different vat keys is also a problem, creating a high level of uncertainty for companies doing business across borders. the report says that next year the commission will propose a definitive vat system that is simple, sufficiently stable and efficient, and less prone to fraud. however, member states should be allowed to set their own rates of taxation, as long as they comply with the minimum rates applicable under the vat directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of the eu's citizens is not distorted.
in writing. ‒ the vat system in the european union, which has been in place since 1993, was designed as a transitional system. taxation of trade between member states will be replaced by a definitive system based on taxation of the supply of goods or services in the member state of origin. the council shall adopt appropriate directives to complete the common system of vat and, in particular, to progressively reduce or abolish the arrangements which differ from that system. the commission communication of 7 april 2016 on the vat action plan states that the time for reform has come and that the long delay on the path towards a single union vat area has ended. however, the report of the economic and monetary committee states that the proposed initiatives and the timing do not represent a decisive breakthrough. instead of fundamentally reforming a 20-year-old transitional regime, the commission is content to propose enhanced cooperation, and hopes that tax authorities will show more trust in each other, set a timetable and carry out other assessments. the report suggests that a permanent vat system could be created by extending reverse taxation to all business transactions across europe. this procedure has already proved successful in a number of member states in sectors exposed to fraud and it cannot be concluded that the system would not work in a wider context. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the road to a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud. as the report mentions, vat fraud represents a staggering loss of revenue for the union, with cross-border fraud alone worth at least eur 50 billion. like the report, i believe that only coordinated efforts by the member states can change this situation. i agree with the conclusion that the cooperation and exchange of information between the tax authorities of the individual member states has not been satisfactory in the past and that it is therefore essential to improve the efficiency of the vat information exchange system. there is a great need to simplify the vat system in the future, especially in the interest of smes, also in terms of administrative burdens and definitions. another important element of the report, which i also support, is the call to member states to allow the exchange of information with judicial and law enforcement authorities, such as europol and olaf, in line with the recommendation of the european court of auditors. i also support the creation of a single, strong and independent european public prosecutor's office, capable of detecting, prosecuting and bringing to justice those responsible for crimes affecting the financial interests of the union, including vat fraud.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a key player in the fight against wildlife crime, but also one of the most important target markets for illegal wildlife products. this illegal trade has become a multibillion-euro crime industry dominated by criminal organizations. the risk of exposure is minimal, and the financial return is high. efforts to reduce broader environmental crime play a particularly important role in combating threats to peace and security. the 2016-2020 action plan reinforces the eu's role in the global fight against illegal wildlife trade. the eu needs to reduce the demand for and supply of illegal wild plant and animal products using the tools at its disposal. it is the collective responsibility of the eu member states to face this challenge and to halt the rapid loss of some of the world's most prized species. this will not only help to preserve biodiversity for future generations, but also to develop and strengthen the eu security framework, improve the quality of life of local communities and strengthen the rule of law. on these grounds, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in its report concludes that illegal trade in wildlife represents a serious threat not only to the survival of many plant and animal species, but also to the rule of law, human rights, global governance and the well-being of local communities, and above all to the survival of the world's ecosystems. the illegal trade in wildlife and plants has become a multibillion-euro crime industry dominated by criminal organisations. the risk of exposure is minimal, and the financial return is high. the european union is a major player in the fight against wildlife crime, but it is also one of the most important target markets for illegal wildlife products and a transit and often origin point for illegal wildlife trade. the action plan calls for immediate action to end the capture and illegal trade of protected species and to curb the demand for and supply of illegal wildlife products. it reinforces the eu's role in the global fight against illegal wildlife trade through prevention, enforcement, cooperation and action. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states have a shared responsibility to act against the drastic decline of many of the world's precious species, for example by tackling the illegal trade in wildlife. this is how we can preserve biodiversity for future generations, and it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of this report. the report describes the illegal trade in wildlife as an organised international crime with an estimated annual value of some eur 20 billion and that this activity is closely linked to other forms of organised crime. this practice is the sixth wave of mass extinction of species and it must be stopped. i therefore welcome the report on the commission's action plan against illegal wildlife trade. this action plan highlights the need for concerted action to address the root causes of wildlife trafficking, to effectively implement and enforce existing legislation and to strengthen global cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination. the report stresses that the identification and allocation of adequate financial and human resources is essential for the implementation of the action plan and recommends that member states establish a coordinating office and a sanctioning system based on the model used in the fight against trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises in transport play a significant role in the operation of european roads and make a significant contribution to the eu economy and job creation. the report we have just voted on is about the opportunities and challenges facing these companies and it is therefore very important that it is on the agenda. however, i regret to say that i find that this positive line is contradicted by paragraph 37 of the report, which calls into question the derogation for light vehicles on the grounds that they are unjustifiably present in international traffic. however, it should be stressed that there are no reliable data on this and that if these carriers also had to comply with all the requirements for vehicles over 3,5 tonnes, this could impose a disproportionately high financial and administrative burden on them. therefore, i cannot support this point in the report. but overall i agree with the report and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises in transport play a significant role in the operation of european roads and make a significant contribution to the eu economy and job creation. the report we have just voted on is about the opportunities and challenges facing these companies and it is therefore very important that it is on the agenda. however, i regret to say that i find that this positive line is contradicted by paragraph 37 of the report, which calls into question the derogation for light vehicles on the grounds that they are unjustifiably present in international traffic. however, it should be pointed out that there are no reliable data on this and that if these carriers were to comply with all the requirements for vehicles over 3,5 tonnes, this could lead to disproportionate financial and administrative overheads. therefore, i cannot support this point in the report. but overall i agree with the report and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises in transport play a significant role in the operation of european roads and make a significant contribution to the eu economy and job creation. the report we have just voted on is about the opportunities and challenges facing these companies and it is therefore very important that it is on the agenda. however, i regret to say that i find that this positive line is contradicted by paragraph 37 of the report, which calls into question the derogation for light vehicles on the grounds that they are unjustifiably present in international traffic. however, it should be pointed out that there are no reliable data on this and that if these carriers were to comply with all the requirements for vehicles over 3,5 tonnes, this could lead to disproportionate financial and administrative overheads. therefore, i cannot support this point in the report. but overall i agree with the report and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises in transport play a significant role in the operation of european roads and make a significant contribution to the eu economy and job creation. the report we have just voted on is about the opportunities and challenges facing these companies and it is therefore very important that it is on the agenda. however, i regret to say that i find that this positive line is contradicted by paragraph 37 of the report, which calls into question the derogation for light vehicles on the grounds that they are unjustifiably present in international traffic. however, it should be pointed out that there are no reliable data on this and that if these carriers were to comply with all the requirements for vehicles over 3,5 tonnes, this could lead to disproportionate financial and administrative overheads. therefore, i cannot support this point in the report. but overall i agree with the report and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the committee on transport and tourism reports that small transport enterprises are essential for european mobility. thanks to their better knowledge of the local market, their proximity to customers and/or often their dynamism and innovative capacity, they improve individual passenger transport, especially within densely populated areas, in the last mile of the highway. the report considers that the situation has never been more favourable for the development of sustainable solutions that, despite the limited capacity of transport infrastructures, allow for environmentally friendly responses to the increasing mobility needs. (while emissions in other sectors of the european economy have decreased overall over the past 10 years, the transport sector continues to grow and currently accounts for about a quarter of total eu emissions.) the 21st conference on climate change confirmed that the transport sector must play its part in the transition to a low-carbon economy as soon as possible. in 2050, which is a short time, 80 percent of the population will be living in cities. urban mobility will therefore become even more important and the development of multimodal, clean and integrated transport will become inevitable. the report makes suggestions to turn many challenges into opportunities for small businesses. i was in favor of accepting it.
in writing. ‒ the report states that the lack of relevant statistical data makes it difficult to assess the real situation of small transport enterprises in europe. however, it is clear that the transport sector is also facing major challenges and opportunities with the emergence of the collaborative economy. the report therefore makes suggestions that may be of use to these companies. as a person who is passionate about small and medium-sized enterprises, i voted in favour of the report. i agree that efforts to create a single european transport area must be accelerated and that this requires closing the gaps in the application of the law. the existing exemptions and controls should be harmonised and anti-competitive practices, such as social dumping, which can lead to serious distortions, should be abolished. i also consider it important to encourage convergence between the traditional economy and new business models, including community business models, in a way that encourages innovation, consumer protection and fair competition.
in writing. ‒ the report urges the belarusian authorities to review the policy that international financial support to the belarusian non-governmental sector continues to be heavily taxed. condemns the policy of the belarusian government to interfere in the internal affairs of civil society organisations, including those representing national minorities, such as the union of poles in belarus, an independent non-governmental organisation, through the use of special forces. in the light of the above, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, convinced that the attention paid by the european institutions, including earlier similar reports and political resolutions of the european parliament on the internal situation in belarus, has made a significant contribution to the fact that the current situation analysis can report on improvements in human rights, the rule of law and political openness in many respects. i believe that the belarusian society and political elite have been brought to appreciate european norms and to recognize the dangers of exclusive relations with russia and have learned lessons from moscow's aggressive expansion in the region, including its actions that undermine ukraine's sovereignty, the forcible annexation of crimea. i consider it important that the report acknowledges the positive role played by the eu in the international efforts to bring peace to ukraine. i believe that the report and the decision while recognising the positive developments strongly highlight the serious shortcomings of the rule of law in belarus (the death penalty, the suppression of the opposition, the problem of electoral rights, the situation of an independent press, etc.) and clearly indicate the direction and framework for the european union to pursue a purposeful, critically supportive and conditional relationship with this important partner country.
in writing. it is essential that the eu budget can keep pace with the member states' implementation of regional development programmes, which will accelerate in 2017, and that cohesion funds are available in sufficient quantities. the eu budget has the resources to allow the european commission to pay in full the bills that arise from the implementation of completed projects in the member states. we also managed to ensure that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis were not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the 2017 union budget does not include any provision for sanctions against member states that refuse to adopt mandatory quotas. the socialists and liberals have proposed a budgetary mechanism to punish member states that do not take in illegal immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. this attack was thwarted during the adoption of the 2017 budget.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, mr member of the european parliament, i would like to thank you for your support. you said flexibility. i can agree with you on that to a certain extent. what can you do about a situation where a government in a member state systematically organises the diversion of eu funds from common objectives and gives them to its own circle of friends, as is happening in hungary, for example? in fact, eu money is used to pay for anti-eu propaganda, where appropriate.
in writing. the exchange of crime prevention and prosecution data with other states is essential to guarantee the security of european citizens. however, such exchange of data can only take place with adequate protection of the personal data of union citizens. it is therefore of great importance that the agreement with the government of the united states of america on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which establishes a framework of standards and requirements for the conditions for the processing of data exchanged between the member states of the union and the united states, be adopted. the agreement provides adequate data protection safeguards, thereby aiming at a high level of protection of the rights of data subjects. i consider it important to emphasise that the agreement does not, in itself, constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the united states. i would also like to point out that, thanks to the persistence of the european parliament, the us side has taken legislative measures to ensure that eu citizens have access to justice in the united states.
in writing. the european union has strict data protection standards. principle that data must never be used for purposes incompatible with the original purpose and that personal data must be lawfully collected and processed for lawful purposes under strict conditions. it is important that these principles are shared by the union's partners, thus protecting the data of european citizens worldwide. this is particularly true for close and important partners such as the united states, with whom the eu has not only close trade links but also close cooperation in law enforcement. the recently created eu-usa privacy shield is also about protecting europeans' data, and we expect the same from the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in relation to the prevention, investigation and detection of crime. in addition to ensuring a high level of protection of personal data, we also believe that the framework agreement on data protection should also increase the effectiveness of international law enforcement by making law enforcement information exchange between the united states and the european union and its member states more effective.
madam president, please. we are almost indebted to commissioner oettinger for his appearance as the veterinary expert on the conflict of interest problem just now to support our motion for a resolution under discussion. specifically, i am talking about the fact that the hungarian government, in opposition to the interests of the european union, its common policies, and under serious suspicion of corruption, is handing hungary over to an external power - specifically russia - with the paks ii nuclear power plant contract. he would push for the imposition of this questionable contract on the european commission by means of a russian party lobbyist, with the help, influence and advice of commissioner oettinger in office, who, mr oettinger, is traveling to hungary on this lobbyist's private plane. if, after the barroso case, such a flagrant breach of the rules is left without consequences, this in itself is an urgent reason for a thorough review of the european commission's rules on conflict of laws. but it is now the task and responsibility of the european parliament to put an end to the commission's opaque, unethical and self-indulgent practice.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, 1 december 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. – since 2014 scandals have been highlighting the problems related to the commissioner’s declaration of interest. commissioner canete’s scandal, president barroso’s case has proven that we need a code of conduct, which improves the restrictions of the post-office employment and strengthens the competence of the ad-hoc ethical committee responsible for the assessment of conflict of interests. unfortunately the proposal president juncker presented recently, which would increase the lobby ban from 1.5 to 3 years for the president of the commission and to extend the cooling-off period for commissioners from 1.5 to 2 years is an insufficient one. former commissioners are entitled to a transitional allowance for three years, precisely prevent conflicts of interest, but in the meanwhile they can start working as a lobbyist after only two years? that is unacceptable and imbalanced. such measures are exactly the reasons for extremists and euro-sceptics to criticizing the eu institutions. besides the 3 years ban former commissioners should be required to make publicly available all information on their meetings and telephone calls with officials of the european institutions or officials of the governments of the member states up to 10 years after they have ceased to hold office.
in writing. if the european commission and the european union as a whole want to remain credible in the eyes of the electorate, then it cannot be allowed that the former commission president, who played a major role in triggering the global economic crisis, should be transferred to goldman sachs after a year and a half of his mandate. nor can the former energy commissioner be allowed to fly to budapest on a private jet of a pro-russian businessman to advise the hungarian government on the enlargement of the pax. this has to change. this can't happen again. the code of conduct needs to be tightened for both current and former commissioners. i therefore fully support the proposal that eu commissioners should be able to reside only with the permission of the college for three years after their term of office has expired. they may only take up employment which does not raise suspicion of conflict of interest. you can't be an oil lobbyist if you were an eu commissioner for the environment. this is the basis for a functioning, authentic and democratic european union. the european parliament has the political responsibility for ensuring that the code of conduct is respected. as elected meps, we will always take action in the future if we see that the activities of a commissioner raise ethical questions.
the following is the summary of the report on liability, compensation and financial guarantees in offshore oil and gas operations (a8-0308/2016) by mr kostas chrysogonos on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (a8-0308/2016) [2015/2352 (ini) ]
madam president, please. i very much agree with the report that any activity that harms the environment and human life should be subject to collective redress and severe sanctions. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the 2013 directive on the implementation of the directive in the member states. i also consider the 'polluter pays' principle to be an important means of preventing damage, as we have already stressed in other areas, such as the resolution on the red-hot disaster in hungary. i would like to eliminate the use of fossil oil and natural gas entirely, but i would like to ensure that it is gradual, because it is an operation with infinite risks. in this area too, the commission should encourage member states to focus on renewable energy sources.
in writing. in april 2010, the deepwater horizon oil rig sank following an accident, spilling nearly 5 million barrels of crude oil into the sea. the disaster was caused by a simple device - a failure of the detonation control system - but it went down in history as one of the greatest natural disasters ever. it is, of course, a legitimate expectation that, learning from the american example, europe will not only try to prevent a similar disaster from occurring, but will be prepared to deal with it both technologically and legally. at the same time, we have to be very careful that this kind of effort doesn't choke the very industry that we want to regulate. the extraction of oil and gas from the north sea and the mediterranean is essential for europe's energy supply. it is important that companies extracting in these regions do not feel that we are trying to make them unable to do so, but that they see a helping hand from the union, which will regulate legal relations and help to minimise risks. besides protecting the existing mine, it's just as important not to discourage potential future investment. the black sea, the eastern mediterranean basin and the barents sea, in particular, could provide a long-term solution to europe's energy needs and would greatly reduce its dependence on external suppliers. we must strive to ensure that any regulation we introduce stabilises the business environment and creates predictability.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, i have to ask you to stop. anything that fosters hatred, violence, intolerance in society is unacceptable. not just on paper, but in practice. however, i regret that eu decision-makers generally fail to condemn intolerant attitudes towards traditional national minorities. i would like to draw attention - as one of the co-chairs of the traditional national minorities intergroup - to the intolerant attitudes that are being adopted in the member states of the european union against european citizens who have always lived in their homeland, who have not moved, against traditional national minorities. such as discrimination and incitement to hatred against them in the press, banning and sanctioning the use of their national symbols and restricting the use of their mother tongue. these are deeply regrettable matters and the european commission should deal with these matters. because all this intolerance makes european citizens belonging to traditional national minorities feel like second-class citizens in their own country.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you mentioned hungary, where i come from, but i think the situation is a little worse there, because not only are there extremist mayors, but the government itself, the hungarian government, viktor orbán's government, often uses european money to fuel xenophobia, xenophobia and all the related concepts. do you think this document has any impact on these processes?
in writing. fighting racism is about standing up for our belief in the rule of law, human dignity, and ultimately democracy. it's about how, as equal citizens, we're all part of something bigger, a community. it is the duty of all to respect fundamental human rights and to act against violations. racial discrimination is unacceptable in its very essence, and we must act against it, whether it comes up in a friendly conversation, in political speech, or in legislation. we must treat cultural diversity as a value and oppose any attempt to divide, antagonize or scapegoat our fellow human beings. racism, racial prejudice, is the source of all the evil that man can do to man and to mankind. let's learn from our history. the exclusion of certain groups of people is increasing worldwide, and it can be countered by a common will and a courageous confrontation.
in writing. ‒ an appropriate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. i welcome this revision proposal, and i myself voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ an appropriate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. i welcome this revision proposal, and i myself voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ an appropriate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. i welcome this revision proposal, and i myself voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ an appropriate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. i welcome this revision proposal, and i myself voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ an appropriate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. i welcome this proposal for a revision, which i myself supported by voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ an appropriate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. i welcome this revision proposal, and i myself voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ an appropriate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. this proposal for a review is welcome.
in writing. ‒ an appropriate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. i welcome this revision proposal, and i myself voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code was adopted on 9 october 2013. its provisions were fully applied on 1 may 2016, when it was found that the wording of article 136 of the regulation was deficient. the draft regulation proposed by the commission aims to correct this. i voted in favour of the proposal as recommended in the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ an appropriate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the regulation establishing the union customs code as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the report accepting the commission proposal should be supported as it correctly pointed out the shortcomings of the regulation establishing the customs code. the competent authorities of the member states do not have a legal basis under the present regulation to apply a number of provisions to goods which temporarily leave the customs territory of the union during transport by sea or air between two points in the customs territory of the union, provided that the transport is carried out by direct route without a stop outside the customs territory of the union. in the absence of a clear legal basis for the presentation of these goods to customs, effective customs supervision cannot be achieved, for example, because the amount of import duties and other charges cannot be correctly established. i therefore agree with the proposal to amend article 136 of the regulation to fill this gap, thereby ensuring equal treatment of goods.
in writing. ‒ the full application of the provisions of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 october 2013 establishing the union customs code and implementing and delegated acts to this code on 1 may 2016 has revealed certain shortcomings in its wording. i supported the related motion.
in writing. ‒ the report contains an amendment to regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for retail investment products. the original regulation itself seeks to protect the public from the misrepresentation of investment packages offered by banks and various financial institutions. the information requirements in force for such products are uncoordinated and do not help retail investors to compare different products and understand their characteristics. as a result, they often make investments without understanding the risks and costs involved, and as a result, they sometimes suffer unexpected losses. to address this, this regulation lays down information rules and obligations that enable retail investors to understand and compare the main characteristics and risks of retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. i supported the adoption of the report, but i must add an amendment. it is good that the public is spared the greater delusions, but on the other hand, it is only a matter of banks and other financial institutions speculating with the public's money. the role of banks, according to the textbooks, is to channel savings to investors, but what has emerged from the financial deregulation of the 1990s is nothing more than a casino capitalism, where savings have been completely disconnected from productive investment.
in writing. ‒ in addition to investor and consumer protection considerations, the economic crisis has also highlighted the need to review the different and outdated regulations for retail investment products in the member states. this proposal therefore aimed at creating a uniform standard to help retail investors to have easily comprehensible and comparable information on products available on the market before making investment decisions. the priips regulation was the result of years of preparatory work and focused on the development of uniform rules on information and marketing processes for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the purpose of the regulation is to specify the form and content of the key information document (kid) and to make it mandatory for investment products to be submitted before the conclusion of the contract. the priips regulation therefore further strengthens transparency alongside the concept of ethical life insurance. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in addition to investor and consumer protection considerations, the economic crisis has also highlighted the need to review the different and outdated regulations for retail investment products in the member states. this proposal therefore aimed at creating a uniform standard to help retail investors to have easily comprehensible and comparable information on products available on the market before making investment decisions. the result of several years of preparatory work was the so-called 'priips regulation', which focused on the development of uniform rules on information and marketing processes for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the purpose of the regulation is to specify the form and content of the key information document (kid) and to make it mandatory for investment products to be submitted before the conclusion of the contract. the priips regulation therefore further strengthens transparency alongside the concept of ethical life insurance. i myself voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the unification of product information is essential for comparability.
in writing. ‒ in addition to investor and consumer protection considerations, the economic crisis has also highlighted the need to review the different and outdated regulations for retail investment products in the member states. this proposal therefore aimed at creating a uniform standard to help retail investors to have easily comprehensible and comparable information on products available on the market before making investment decisions. the result of several years of preparatory work was the so-called 'priips regulation', which focused on the development of uniform rules on information and marketing processes for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the purpose of the regulation is to specify the form and content of the key information document (kid) and to make it mandatory for investment products to be submitted before the conclusion of the contract. the priips regulation therefore further strengthens transparency alongside the concept of ethical life insurance. i myself voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the unification of product information is essential for comparability.
in writing. ‒ in addition to investor and consumer protection considerations, the economic crisis has also highlighted the need to review the different and outdated regulations for retail investment products in the member states. this proposal therefore aimed at creating a uniform standard to help retail investors to have easily comprehensible and comparable information on products available on the market before making investment decisions. the result of several years of preparatory work was the so-called 'priips regulation', which focused on the development of uniform rules on information and marketing processes for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the purpose of the regulation is to specify the form and content of the key information document (kid) and to make it mandatory for investment products to be submitted before the conclusion of the contract. the priips regulation therefore further strengthens transparency alongside the concept of ethical life insurance. i myself voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the unification of product information is essential for comparability.
in writing. ‒ in addition to investor and consumer protection considerations, the economic crisis has also highlighted the need to review the different and outdated regulations for retail investment products in the member states. this proposal therefore aimed at creating a uniform standard to help retail investors to have easily comprehensible and comparable information on products available on the market before making investment decisions. the result of several years of preparatory work was the so-called 'priips regulation', which focused on the development of uniform rules on information and marketing processes for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the purpose of the regulation is to specify the form and content of the key information document (kid) and to make it mandatory for investment products to be submitted before the conclusion of the contract. the priips regulation therefore further strengthens transparency alongside the concept of ethical life insurance. i myself voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the unification of product information is essential for comparability.
in writing. ‒ in addition to investor and consumer protection considerations, the economic crisis has also highlighted the need to review the different and outdated regulations for retail investment products in the member states. this proposal therefore aimed at creating a uniform standard to help retail investors to have easily comprehensible and comparable information on products available on the market before making investment decisions. the result of several years of preparatory work was the so-called 'priips regulation', which focused on the development of uniform rules on information and marketing processes for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the purpose of the regulation is to specify the form and content of the key information document (kid) and to make it mandatory for investment products to be submitted before the conclusion of the contract. the priips regulation therefore further strengthens transparency alongside the concept of ethical life insurance. i myself voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the unification of product information is essential for comparability.
in writing. ‒ in addition to investor and consumer protection considerations, the economic crisis has also highlighted the need to review the different and outdated regulations for retail investment products in the member states. this proposal therefore aimed at creating a uniform standard to help retail investors to have easily comprehensible and comparable information on products available on the market before making investment decisions. the result of several years of preparatory work was the so-called 'priips regulation', which focused on the development of uniform rules on information and marketing processes for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the purpose of the regulation is to specify the form and content of the key information document (kid) and to make it mandatory for investment products to be submitted before the conclusion of the contract. the priips regulation therefore further strengthens transparency alongside the concept of ethical life insurance.
in writing. ‒ in addition to investor and consumer protection considerations, the economic crisis has also highlighted the need to review the different and outdated regulations for retail investment products in the member states. this proposal therefore aimed at creating a uniform standard to help retail investors to have easily comprehensible and comparable information on products available on the market before making investment decisions. the result of several years of preparatory work was the so-called 'priips regulation', which focused on the development of uniform rules on information and marketing processes for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the purpose of the regulation is to specify the form and content of the key information document (kid) and to make it mandatory for investment products to be submitted before the conclusion of the contract. the priips regulation therefore further strengthens transparency alongside the concept of ethical life insurance. i myself voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the unification of product information is essential for comparability.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to amend regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents relating to retail and insurance-based investment products by proposing to defer application of the regulation for 12 months in accordance with the request of parliament and the substantial majority of member states, given the exceptionally short time remaining . the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that parliament adopt the proposal. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ in addition to investor and consumer protection considerations, the economic crisis has also highlighted the need to review the different and outdated regulations for retail investment products in the member states. this proposal therefore aimed at creating a uniform standard to help retail investors to have easily comprehensible and comparable information on products available on the market before making investment decisions. the result of several years of preparatory work was the so-called 'priips regulation', which focused on the development of uniform rules on information and marketing processes for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the purpose of the regulation is to specify the form and content of the key information document (kid) and to make it mandatory for investment products to be submitted before the conclusion of the contract. the priips regulation therefore further strengthens transparency alongside the concept of ethical life insurance. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the unification of product information is essential for comparability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products. the report, in line with the commission's proposal, supports the commission's intention to improve the protection of retail investors investing in retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products (priips). i welcome this intention and the desire to restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector, which has been shaken by the financial crisis. to that end, it provides for uniform rules for priip manufacturers on product information and for retail investors to be provided with a key information document on priips. i believe that the information published in product information sheets in this form helps retail investors to better understand the economic nature and risks of the product and to make it easier to compare the products with other investment offers. in my view, the regulation as a whole also contributes to increased transparency and harmonisation in the financial services market.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council introduced a series of measures aimed at enhancing investor protection and restoring consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing the transparency of the retail investment market. i voted for the related document.
in writing. ‒ agreements providing for visa-free short-stay travel are generally seen as both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. such countries pose no threat to irregular migration or to security and public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended on 20 may 2014 by regulation (ec) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which included the republic of kiribati among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. subsequently, the commission, on the authority of the council, opened negotiations with a view to the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati. the council adopted a draft decision on the ratification of the agreement signed in brussels on 23 june 2016, subject to parliament's consent. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the council, on behalf of the european union, signing an agreement with the republic of kiribati on the mutual granting of visa-free short-stay visas for all categories of passports. in considering the proposal, i took into account that this step is in line with the intentions and objectives of the cotonou agreement governing relations between the eu and the acp countries, and could facilitate the development of economic and trade relations and tourism, and thus contribute to the achievement of the union's development policy objectives in the region. i took note of the recent efforts made by kiribati to improve the living standards of its population and to uphold human rights, while also appreciating the important contribution made by the ep, through the acp-eu parliamentary delegation, to the process of establishing the visa waiver agreement.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement). i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended on 20 may 2014 by regulation (ec) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which included the solomon islands among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. subsequently, the commission, on the authority of the council, opened negotiations with a view to the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the european union and solomon islands. the council adopted a draft decision on the ratification of the agreement signed in brussels on 7 october 2016, subject to parliament's consent. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the council signing, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with the solomon islands on the mutual granting of visa-free short-stay visas for all categories of passports. in considering the proposal, i took into account that this step was in line with the intentions and objectives of the cotonou agreement governing relations between the eu and the acp countries, and could contribute to the development of economic and trade relations, which are still modest but still full of potential, and to the development of tourism, and thus to the achievement of the union's development policy objectives in the region. i took note of the recent efforts made by the solomon islands to develop the local economy and to better underpin the forthcoming eu-acp economic partnership agreement, while also acknowledging the important contribution made by the ep, through the acp-eu parliamentary delegation, to the process of establishing the visa waiver agreement.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the solomon islands are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement). i supported the current proposal.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended on 20 may 2014 by regulation (ec) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which included the federated states of micronesia among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. subsequently, the commission, on the authority of the council, entered into negotiations with a view to the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia. the council adopted a draft decision on the ratification of the agreement signed in new york on 19 september 2016, subject to parliament's consent. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the council signing, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with micronesia on the mutual granting of visa-free short-stay visas for all categories of passports. in considering the proposal, i took into account that this step was in line with the intentions and objectives of the cotonou agreement governing relations between the eu and the acp countries, and could promote modest but promising economic and trade relations, the development of tourism and thus contribute to the achievement of the union's development policy objectives in the region. i took note of the fact that the democratic state of micronesia fully guarantees the human rights of its population, and i also appreciated the important contribution made by the ep, through the acp-eu parliamentary delegation, to the process of establishing the visa waiver agreement.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement). i supported the current proposal.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended on 20 may 2014 by regulation (ec) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which included tuvalu among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. subsequently, the commission, on the authority of the council, opened negotiations with a view to the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the european union and the state of tuvalu. the council adopted a draft decision on the ratification of the agreement signed in brussels on 1 july 2016, subject to parliament's consent. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the council, on behalf of the european union, signing an agreement with the state of tuvalu on the mutual granting of visa-free short-stay visas for all categories of passports. in considering the proposal, i took into account that this step was in line with the intentions and objectives of the cotonou agreement governing relations between the eu and the acp countries, and could promote economic relations, tourism and the development of the local service industry (mainly in the form of the sale of domain names), and thus contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the union's development policy in the region. i took into account the need to promote dialogue with tuvalu on human rights, women's rights and climate change, while also acknowledging the important contribution made by the ep, through the acp-eu parliamentary delegation, to the process of establishing the visa waiver agreement.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the state of tuvalu are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement). i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended on 20 may 2014 by regulation (ec) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which included the republic of the marshall islands among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. subsequently, the commission, acting on the authority of the council, opened negotiations with a view to the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands. on 27 june 2016, the council adopted a draft decision on the ratification of the geneva agreement, subject to parliament's consent. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the council, on behalf of the european union, signing an agreement with the republic of the marshall islands on the mutual granting of visa-free short-stay visas for all categories of passports. in considering the proposal, i took into account that this step was in line with the intentions and objectives of the cotonou agreement governing relations between the eu and the acp countries, and could promote the development of the very modest but still promising economic and trade relations and tourism, and thus contribute to the achievement of the union's development policy objectives in the region. i noted that the republic of the marshall islands, as a state (freely associated with the united states) is now a stable democracy with human rights, and in fact, its people elected the first female president in the region. i also appreciated the important contribution made by the ep, through the acp-eu parliamentary delegation, to the process of establishing the visa waiver agreement.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement). i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is an important instrument for responding adequately to major natural and extraordinary regional disasters in the eu and in the candidate countries, and for expressing solidarity with the regions and states eligible for support. the facility is one of the eu funds that provides the most tangible, concrete support to local and regional communities. the report summarises the most significant changes the fund has undergone in recent years to respond more effectively and quickly to disasters and to provide more flexible solutions. a factual description of the functioning of an eu fund, which was created for a fundamentally good purpose, and of the changes that have taken place in recent years in relation to the fund. i was in favor of accepting it.
in writing. ‒ applications submitted under the solidarity fund should be processed as quickly as possible, within a maximum of 12 weeks from the submission. all decision-making levels should respond quickly and effectively to ensure that financial assistance is made available to the disaster area as soon as possible. it is untenable that in some cases it took more than one year for the financial assistance to reach the beneficiaries. preventive action and the search for synergies with the cohesion funds, in particular for infrastructure projects, are part of effective action, as they reduce the costs associated with the necessary post-disaster measures. the parliament's report recommends closer cooperation between the different levels of decision-making and calls for greater transparency and better communication with stakeholders. i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the evaluation of the solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the solidarity fund in the european parliament's plenary vote in strasbourg. the processing time for applications submitted under the solidarity fund shall be as short as possible and shall not exceed 12 weeks from the submission of the application. all decision-making levels should respond quickly and effectively to ensure that financial assistance is made available to the disaster area as soon as possible. it is untenable that in some cases it took more than one year for the financial assistance to reach the beneficiaries. preventive action and the search for synergies with the cohesion funds, in particular for infrastructure projects, are part of effective action, as they reduce the costs associated with the necessary post-disaster measures. the parliament's report recommends closer cooperation between the different levels of decision-making and calls for greater transparency and better communication with stakeholders.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the solidarity fund in the european parliament's plenary vote in strasbourg. the processing time for applications submitted under the solidarity fund shall be as short as possible and shall not exceed 12 weeks from the submission of the application. all decision-making levels should respond quickly and effectively to ensure that financial assistance is made available to the disaster area as soon as possible. it is untenable that in some cases it took more than one year for the financial assistance to reach the beneficiaries. preventive action and the search for synergies with the cohesion funds, in particular for infrastructure projects, are part of effective action, as they reduce the costs associated with the necessary post-disaster measures. the parliament's report recommends closer cooperation between the different levels of decision-making and calls for greater transparency and better communication with stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the processing time for applications submitted under the solidarity fund should be as short as possible, and no longer than 12 weeks from the date of submission of the application. all decision-making levels should respond quickly and effectively to ensure that financial assistance is made available to the disaster area as soon as possible. it is untenable that in some cases it took more than one year for the financial assistance to reach the beneficiaries. the european parliament's report on the evaluation of the solidarity fund recommends closer cooperation between the different levels of decision-making and calls for greater transparency and better communication with stakeholders. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report in the european parliament's plenary vote in strasbourg.
in writing. ‒ the processing time for applications submitted under the solidarity fund should be as short as possible, and no longer than 12 weeks from the date of submission of the application. all decision-making levels should respond quickly and effectively to ensure that financial assistance is available as soon as possible in disaster-affected areas. it is untenable that in some cases it took more than one year for the financial assistance to reach the beneficiaries. preventive action and the search for synergies with the cohesion funds, in particular for infrastructure projects, are part of effective action, as they reduce the costs associated with the necessary post-disaster measures. the parliament's report recommends closer cooperation between the different levels of decision-making and calls for greater transparency, improved communication with stakeholders and a better understanding of the issues involved.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the solidarity fund in the european parliament's plenary vote in strasbourg. the processing time for applications submitted under the solidarity fund shall be as short as possible and shall not exceed 12 weeks from the submission of the application. all decision-making levels should respond quickly and effectively to ensure that financial assistance is made available to the disaster area as soon as possible. it is untenable that in some cases it took more than one year for the financial assistance to reach the beneficiaries. preventive action and the search for synergies with the cohesion funds, in particular for infrastructure projects, are part of effective action, as they reduce the costs associated with the necessary post-disaster measures. the parliament's report recommends closer cooperation between the different levels of decision-making and calls for greater transparency and better communication with stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up after the floods of 2002. the fund shall aim to provide an immediate expression of union solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. the european commission presented its 2014 report on the mobilisation of the fund in october 2015. the regional development committee decided to examine the operation of the fund and report back to parliament. the report focuses on the fund's response speed and the need for a prevention policy that takes advantage of the complementarity between the fund and other eu instruments, in particular cohesion policy. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the document recalls that the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. it provides that, in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000, by entering the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council to which this report responds was not made in the context of a specific disaster. instead, it aims to allocate eur 50 million in the 2017 union budget in the form of commitment and payment appropriations to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. i consider it important that this eu financial support, in addition to reinforcing the clear political message of solidarity, also provides the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned.
in writing. ‒ following the tragic floods of 2002, the european union set up the european union solidarity fund. this fund shall allow for the immediate expression of union solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. in addition to the member states, the fund may also support candidate countries. i supported the current proposal.
in writing. ‒ the ep's agenda includes a proposal by albrecht, the green party rapporteur, to ask the ep to agree to the conclusion on behalf of the european union of an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, and to propose the adoption of a draft council decision to that effect. the albrecht proposal looks at these aspects and their balancing and concludes that the aspects of law enforcement, judicial cooperation and the protection of the personal rights and personal data of european citizens are both valid and balanced. the commission's proposal does not address the concerns raised by the european data protection supervisor, among others, about framework agreements. in the light of the above, the gue and alde for essentially similar reasons in separate motions for a resolution propose that the framework agreement should now be referred to the european court of justice for an opinion on its compatibility with the treaties, rather than for approval. i voted yes to the motion.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of crime prevention and prosecution data with other states is essential to guarantee the security of european citizens. however, such exchange of data can only take place with adequate protection of the personal data of union citizens. it is therefore of great importance that the agreement with the government of the united states of america on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which establishes a framework of standards and requirements for the conditions for the processing of data exchanged between the member states of the union and the united states, be adopted. the agreement provides adequate data protection safeguards, thereby aiming at a high level of protection of the rights of data subjects. it is also important to emphasise that the agreement itself does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the united states, and i can therefore vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of crime prevention and prosecution data with other states is essential to guarantee the security of european citizens. however, such exchange of data can only take place with adequate protection of the personal data of union citizens. it is therefore of great importance that the agreement with the government of the united states of america on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which establishes a framework of standards and requirements for the conditions for the processing of data exchanged between the member states of the union and the united states, be adopted. the agreement provides adequate data protection safeguards, thereby aiming at a high level of protection of the rights of data subjects. it is also important to emphasise that the agreement itself does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the united states, and i can therefore vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the gue/ngl and alde groups. the two motions, each with a different argument, raise doubts as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights and propose that parliament seek an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties. since i consider that the proposed agreement adequately guarantees the protection of individuals' personal data, non-discrimination and the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial, i considered the concerns of the two groups to be unfounded. so i rejected both proposals.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of crime prevention and prosecution data with other states is essential to guarantee the security of european citizens. however, such exchange of data can only take place with adequate protection of the personal data of union citizens. it is therefore of great importance that the agreement with the government of the united states of america on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which establishes a framework of standards and requirements for the conditions for the processing of data exchanged between the member states of the union and the united states, be adopted. the agreement provides adequate data protection safeguards, thereby aiming at a high level of protection of the rights of data subjects. it is also important to emphasise that the agreement itself does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the united states, which is why i voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in line with the s&d position and did not support the amendments proposed by the other groups.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of crime prevention and prosecution data with other states is essential to guarantee the security of european citizens. however, such exchange of data can only take place with adequate protection of the personal data of union citizens. it is therefore of great importance that the agreement with the government of the united states of america on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which establishes a framework of standards and requirements for the conditions for the processing of data exchanged between the member states of the union and the united states, be adopted. the agreement provides adequate data protection safeguards, thereby aiming at a high level of protection of the rights of data subjects. it is also important to emphasise that the agreement itself does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the united states, which is why i voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of crime prevention and prosecution data with other states is essential to guarantee the security of european citizens. however, such exchange of data can only take place with adequate protection of the personal data of union citizens. it is therefore of great importance that the agreement with the government of the united states of america on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which establishes a framework of standards and requirements for the conditions for the processing of data exchanged between the member states of the union and the united states, be adopted. the agreement provides adequate data protection safeguards, thereby aiming at a high level of protection of the rights of data subjects. it is also important to emphasise that the agreement itself does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the united states, and i can therefore vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of crime prevention and prosecution data with other states is essential to guarantee the security of european citizens. however, such exchange of data can only take place with adequate protection of the personal data of union citizens. it is therefore of great importance that the agreement with the government of the united states of america on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which establishes a framework of standards and requirements for the conditions for the processing of data exchanged between the member states of the union and the united states, be adopted. the agreement provides adequate data protection safeguards, thereby aiming at a high level of protection of the rights of data subjects. it is also important to emphasise that the agreement itself does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the united states, and i can therefore vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ explanation of vote: us-eu agreement on the protection of personal data in connection with criminal offences: exchange of data on crime prevention and prosecution with other states is essential to guarantee the security of european citizens. however, such exchange of data can only take place with adequate protection of the personal data of union citizens. it is therefore of great importance that the agreement with the government of the united states of america on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which establishes a framework of standards and requirements for the conditions for the processing of data exchanged between the member states of the union and the united states, be adopted. the agreement provides adequate data protection safeguards, thereby aiming at a high level of protection of the rights of data subjects. it is also important to emphasise that the agreement itself does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the united states, and i can therefore vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of crime prevention and prosecution data with other states is essential to guarantee the security of european citizens. however, such exchange of data can only take place with adequate protection of the personal data of union citizens. it is therefore of great importance that the agreement with the government of the united states of america on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which establishes a framework of standards and requirements for the conditions for the processing of data exchanged between the member states of the union and the united states, be adopted. the agreement provides adequate data protection safeguards, thereby ensuring a high level of protection of the rights of data subjects. it is also important to emphasise that the agreement does not, in itself, constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the united states.
in writing. ‒ by its decision of 3 december 2010, the council authorised the commission to conclude an agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the protection of personal data processed and transmitted for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorist offences, in the framework of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the text of the agreement was initialled on 8 september 2015 after five years of negotiations. the agreement aims to ensure a high level of protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, in particular the right to privacy, with regard to the processing of personal data, where personal data are transferred to the competent authorities of the european union and its member states and of the united states for those purposes. the council adopted a draft decision on the ratification of the agreement, for which it requested parliament's consent. in its opinion, the committee on legal affairs concluded that the envisaged agreement is based on an appropriate legal basis, guarantees a high level of protection of the fundamental right to personal data and will improve law enforcement cooperation with the united states. the committee on foreign affairs has written to assure parliament of its support for the proposed agreement. on this basis, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends in its report that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ on 3 december 2010, the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for an agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the protection of personal data processed and transmitted for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorist offences, in the framework of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the agreement provides for a contractual safety net and guarantees duty-free access to the union market until the regional agreement is concluded. the transitional agreement provides for its provisional application and will be replaced by a full regional economic partnership agreement on the date of its entry into force. although ghana's export revenues are dominated by gold, cocoa and crude oil, the union has become a primary target for ghana's 'non-traditional' exports, reflecting the increasing diversification and value-added production within the country. ghana's imports are dominated by ships, vehicles and refined petroleum. the country is trying to stabilize its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. while excluding certain sensitive agricultural and processed products from liberalisation, the tpa also introduces safeguards to allow the re-introduction of duties in case of a sudden increase in imports threatening to distort the economy and endanger food security. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the agreement provides for a contractual safety net and guarantees duty-free access to the union market until the regional agreement is concluded. the transitional agreement provides for its provisional application and will be replaced by a full regional economic partnership agreement on the date of its entry into force. although ghana's export revenues are dominated by gold, cocoa and crude oil, the union has become a primary target for ghana's 'non-traditional' exports, reflecting the increasing diversification and value-added production within the country. ghana's imports are dominated by ships, vehicles and refined petroleum. the country is trying to stabilize its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. while excluding certain sensitive agricultural and processed products from liberalisation, the tpa also introduces safeguards to allow the re-introduction of duties in case of a sudden increase in imports threatening to distort the economy and endanger food security. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the agreement provides for a contractual safety net and guarantees duty-free access to the union market until the regional agreement is concluded. the transitional agreement provides for its provisional application and will be replaced by a full regional economic partnership agreement on the date of its entry into force. although ghana's export revenues are dominated by gold, cocoa and crude oil, the union has become a primary target for ghana's 'non-traditional' exports, reflecting the increasing diversification and value-added production within the country. ghana's imports are dominated by ships, vehicles and refined petroleum. the country is trying to stabilize its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. while excluding certain sensitive agricultural and processed products from liberalisation, the tpa also introduces safeguards to allow the re-introduction of duties in case of a sudden increase in imports threatening to distort the economy and endanger food security. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the agreement provides for a contractual safety net and guarantees duty-free access to the union market until the regional agreement is concluded. the transitional agreement provides for its provisional application and will be replaced by a full regional economic partnership agreement on the date of its entry into force. although ghana's export revenues are dominated by gold, cocoa and crude oil, the union has become a primary target for ghana's 'non-traditional' exports, reflecting the increasing diversification and value-added production within the country. ghana's imports are dominated by ships, vehicles and refined petroleum. the country is trying to stabilize its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. while excluding certain sensitive agricultural and processed products from liberalisation, the tpa also introduces safeguards to allow the re-introduction of duties in case of a sudden increase in imports threatening to distort the economy and endanger food security. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the agreement provides for a contractual safety net and guarantees duty-free access to the union market until the regional agreement is concluded. the transitional agreement provides for its provisional application and will be replaced by a full regional economic partnership agreement on the date of its entry into force. although ghana's export revenues are dominated by gold, cocoa and crude oil, the union has become a primary target for ghana's 'non-traditional' exports, reflecting the increasing diversification and value-added production within the country. ghana's imports are dominated by ships, vehicles and refined petroleum. the country is trying to stabilize its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. while excluding certain sensitive agricultural and processed products from liberalisation, the tpa also introduces safeguards to allow the re-introduction of duties in case of a sudden increase in imports threatening to distort the economy and endanger food security. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the agreement provides for a contractual safety net and guarantees duty-free access to the union market until the regional agreement is concluded. the transitional agreement provides for its provisional application and will be replaced by a full regional economic partnership agreement on the date of its entry into force. although ghana's export revenues are dominated by gold, cocoa and crude oil, the union has become a primary target for ghana's 'non-traditional' exports, reflecting the increasing diversification and value-added production within the country. ghana's imports are dominated by ships, vehicles and refined petroleum. the country is trying to stabilize its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. while excluding certain sensitive agricultural and processed products from liberalisation, the tpa also introduces safeguards to allow the re-introduction of duties in case of a sudden increase in imports threatening to distort the economy and endanger food security. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the agreement provides for a contractual safety net and guarantees duty-free access to the union market until the regional agreement is concluded. the transitional agreement provides for provisional application. it shall replace the regional level on the date of entry into force of the epa. although ghana's export revenues are dominated by gold, cocoa and crude oil, the union has become a primary target for ghana's 'non-traditional' exports, which is encouraging increased diversification and value-added production within the country. ghana's imports are dominated by ships, vehicles and refined petroleum. the country is trying to stabilize its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. while excluding certain sensitive agricultural and processed products from liberalisation, the tpa also introduces safeguards to allow the re-introduction of duties in case of a sudden increase in imports threatening to distort the economy and endanger food security.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the agreement provides for a contractual safety net and guarantees duty-free access to the union market until the regional agreement is concluded. the transitional agreement provides for its provisional application and will be replaced by a full regional economic partnership agreement on the date of its entry into force. although ghana's export revenues are dominated by gold, cocoa and crude oil, the union has become a primary target for ghana's 'non-traditional' exports, reflecting the increasing diversification and value-added production within the country. ghana's imports are dominated by ships, vehicles and refined petroleum. the country is trying to stabilize its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. while excluding certain sensitive agricultural and processed products from liberalisation, the tpa also introduces safeguards to allow the re-introduction of duties in case of a sudden increase in imports threatening to distort the economy and endanger food security. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in 2007, a transitional economic partnership agreement was concluded between the european union and ghana, guaranteeing duty-free access for ghana to the eu market. as ghana is a member of the economic community of west african states (ecowas) and negotiations between the eu and ecowas for a comprehensive regional economic partnership agreement have begun, the transitional agreement has not yet been ratified. however, given that the convention initialled on 30 june 2014 has not yet been ratified due to the hesitation of some ecowas member states, ghana decided on 3 august 2016 to ratify the interim economic partnership agreement with the eu, which provides for provisional application, pending its entry into force and to replace it with a full regional economic partnership agreement on the date of its entry into force. the council has drawn up a draft decision for eu ratification of the tpa, but this will require parliament's consent. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement on such terms. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the agreement provides for a contractual safety net and guarantees duty-free access to the union market until the regional agreement is concluded. the transitional agreement provides for its provisional application and will be replaced by a full regional economic partnership agreement on the date of its entry into force. although ghana's export revenues are dominated by gold, cocoa and crude oil, the union has become a primary target for ghana's 'non-traditional' exports, reflecting the increasing diversification and value-added production within the country. ghana's imports are dominated by ships, vehicles and refined petroleum. the country is trying to stabilize its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. while excluding certain sensitive agricultural and processed products from liberalisation, the tpa also introduces safeguards to allow the re-introduction of duties in case of a sudden increase in imports threatening to distort the economy and endanger food security. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted with a reservation on the draft resolution on the implementation of the previously agreed economic partnership agreement between the eu and ghana, recognising the importance of the agreement and considering the doubts raised about its specific economic content. i am aware that it is important for the ghanaian economy to continue to enjoy duty-free access to the european market for certain products after the expiry of the interim agreement with the eu in october this year, and this partnership could provide a framework for this. i also considered that ghana is a democratic country where the government and the legislature are unanimous in supporting the agreement. however, i could not ignore the serious concerns expressed - in particular by my own group - that the commission had asserted its primacy during the negotiations on the agreement and that the text thus entailed economic risks to ghana's disadvantage in several respects. it is clear that ghana would also benefit from developing european trade relations with the eu under an agreement envisaged under the aegis of ecowas, but the fact that this multilateral agreement is still being worked out does not enjoy the support of all parties and thus does not provide a short-term solution for ghana's export positions. in view of the complex and contradictory situation of the case, i have decided not to vote on the specific motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and later côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the transitional economic partnership agreement (tpa) concluded with the european union in 2007 as a result of the delay in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). i was following the group's position with my tongue.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. on a proposal from the european commission, the contingency reserve is mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. on a proposal from the european commission, the contingency reserve is mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. on a proposal from the european commission, the contingency reserve is mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. on a proposal from the european commission, the contingency reserve is mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. on a proposal from the european commission, the contingency reserve is mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. on a proposal from the european commission, the contingency reserve is mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. on a proposal from the european commission, the contingency reserve is mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. on a proposal from the european commission, the contingency reserve is mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ article 13 of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 established an exceptional reserve of up to 0,03% of the union's gross national income. the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council that the contingency margin be mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016. the aim of the proposal is to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million, above the commitment ceiling of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework, to meet the needs arising from the migration, asylum and security crisis. in its report, the committee on budgets recommends that parliament approve the commission's proposal to mobilise the emergency reserve. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. on a proposal from the european commission, the contingency reserve is mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the exceptional reserve shall be mobilised in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 in order to provide for a commitment appropriation of eur 240,1 million over and above the ceiling for commitments of chapter 3 of the multiannual financial framework. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. the european parliament believes that towards the end of the current financial framework there will be a significant accumulation of payment requests, and it is therefore important to avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, we can only support any proposal if we receive adequate guarantees: there will be sufficient resources in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes already in place and for agricultural subsidies. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. as regards the revenue side of the budget, the draft amending budget no 4/2016 includes a revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for resources based on value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni), as well as the accounting and financing of the uk corrections concerned. the european parliament believes that towards the end of the current financial framework there will be a significant accumulation of payment requests, and it is therefore important to avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, we can only support any proposal if we receive adequate guarantees: there will be sufficient resources in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes already in place and for agricultural subsidies. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. as regards the revenue side of the budget, the draft amending budget no 4/2016 includes a revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for resources based on value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni), as well as the accounting and financing of the uk corrections concerned. the european parliament believes that towards the end of the current financial framework there will be a significant accumulation of payment requests, and it is therefore important to avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, we can only support any proposal if we receive adequate guarantees: there will be sufficient resources in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes already in place and for agricultural subsidies. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. as regards the revenue side of the budget, the draft amending budget no 4/2016 includes a revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for resources based on value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni), as well as the accounting and financing of the uk corrections concerned. the european parliament believes that towards the end of the current financial framework there will be a significant accumulation of payment requests, and it is therefore important to avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, we can only support any proposal if we receive adequate guarantees: there will be sufficient resources in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes already in place and for agricultural subsidies. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. as regards the revenue side of the budget, draft amending budget no 4/2016 includes a revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for resources based on value added tax and gross national income, as well as the accounting and financing of the uk corrections concerned. the european parliament believes that towards the end of the current financial framework there will be a significant accumulation of payment requests, and it is therefore important to avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, we can only support any proposal if we receive adequate guarantees: there will be sufficient resources in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes already in place and for agricultural subsidies. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. as regards the revenue side of the budget, the draft amending budget no 4/2016 includes a revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for resources based on value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni), as well as the accounting and financing of the uk corrections concerned. the european parliament believes that towards the end of the current financial framework there will be a significant accumulation of payment requests, and it is therefore important to avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, we can only support any proposal if we receive adequate guarantees: there will be sufficient resources in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes already in place and for agricultural subsidies. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. as regards the revenue side of the budget, the draft amending budget no 4/2016 includes a revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for resources based on value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni), as well as the accounting and financing of the uk corrections concerned. the european parliament believes that towards the end of the current financial framework there will be a significant accumulation of payment requests, and it is therefore important to avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, we can only support any proposal if we receive adequate guarantees: there will be sufficient resources in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes already in place and for agricultural subsidies.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. as regards the revenue side of the budget, the draft amending budget no 4/2016 includes a revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for resources based on value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni), as well as the accounting and financing of the uk corrections concerned. the european parliament believes that towards the end of the current financial framework there will be a significant accumulation of payment requests, and it is therefore important to avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, we can only support any proposal if we receive adequate guarantees: there will be sufficient resources in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes already in place and for agricultural subsidies. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2016 adopted by the commission on 30 september 2016. the draft proposes updating appropriations to take account of recent developments in migration and security issues, reducing payment and commitment appropriations as a result of the global realignment, extending the european fund for strategic investments, amending the staff establishment plan of frontex and updating revenue appropriations. on 24 november 2016, the council adopted its position on the draft and forwarded it to parliament. the committee on budgets report, also based on the position expressed in a letter by the committee on regional development and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, expresses serious concerns about some of the measures envisaged, but nevertheless recommends that parliament approve the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016, thereby definitively adopting the amendment. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. as regards the revenue side of the budget, the draft amending budget no 4/2016 includes a revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for resources based on value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni), as well as the accounting and financing of the uk corrections concerned. the european parliament believes that towards the end of the current financial framework there will be a significant accumulation of payment requests, and it is therefore important to avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, we can only support any proposal if we receive adequate guarantees: there will be sufficient resources in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes already in place and for agricultural subsidies. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the entry into force of the proposal for the 2016/4 budgetary adjustment, also in view of the fact that the presentation draws attention to the disproportionate nature of the normal timetable for budget planning, with regard to the delay in the recovery of grants, the shortfall in the reserve in this chapter and the anomalies or backlogs in the use of resources transferred for the purpose of dealing with the migration crisis and the accommodation of refugees. i am aware that the corrections proposed are necessary for the continuity of the union's legal functioning, but i am confident that the findings of this report will also help to avoid similar deficiencies in the future.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur agrees with the esi funds' forecast, provided that the transfer from cef is adequately remunerated in 2018. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the budgetary resource based on vat for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. draft amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate the impact of own resources adjustments with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the european parliament's plenary approved the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the budgetary resource based on vat for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. draft amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate the impact of own resources adjustments with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the european parliament's plenary approved the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the budgetary resource based on vat for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. draft amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate the impact of own resources adjustments with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the european parliament's plenary approved the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the budgetary resource based on vat for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. draft amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate the impact of own resources adjustments with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the european parliament's plenary approved the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the budgetary resource based on vat for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. draft amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate the impact of own resources adjustments with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the european parliament's plenary approved the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the budgetary resource based on vat for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. draft amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate the impact of own resources adjustments with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the european parliament's plenary approved the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the budgetary resource based on vat for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. draft amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate the impact of own resources adjustments with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the european parliament's plenary approved the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the budgetary resource based on vat for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. draft amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate the impact of own resources adjustments with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the european parliament's plenary approved the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2016 was adopted by the commission on 7 october 2016. the draft aims to incorporate the impact of the own resources adjustments resulting from the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu, which applies retroactively to the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016, into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. on 8 november 2016, the council adopted its position on the draft and forwarded it to the european parliament. in its report, the committee on budgets notes that the draft amends the individual contribution of each member state, but does not change the overall revenue or expenditure side of the union budget, and therefore recommends that parliament endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016, thereby adopting the amendment definitively. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council negotiating delegations on the union budget for 2017. draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the budgetary resource based on vat for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. draft amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate the impact of own resources adjustments with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the european parliament's plenary approved the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the entry into force of the proposal for the 2016/2017 budgetary adjustment, given that, in the context of the normal timetable for budgetary planning, the application of the data on the reduction of certain tax changes in direct tax revenue (vat) and the reduction of the relative position of certain member states in national contributions based on gni does not in fact represent a change in the overall balance of revenue and expenditure of the union budget, but that these adjustments are necessary for the continuity of the legal functioning.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the closure and entry into force of the ratification process of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a reduction in the rate of call of the vat resource for some member states and a gross reduction in the gni-based contribution for some member states. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ explanation of vote - report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany a8-0352/2016the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and to express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with an amount of eur 31 475 000 in commitment and payment appropriations. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the floods in lower bavaria in may and june 2016, the commission proposed to the parliament and the council that the european union solidarity fund be mobilised. seven people died in the disaster, and two months later, more than 2,000 people were unable to return to their homes. the town of simbach am inn was almost completely destroyed and there was severe damage to basic infrastructure: water supply, sewage treatment and electricity grid. in their application, the german authorities estimated the total amount of damage directly caused by the disaster at eur 1 259,005 million, which corresponds to 3,03% of the lower bavaria region's gdp, i.e. more than 1,5% of the regional gdp, and thus constitutes a 'regional disaster'. the german authorities estimated the eligible costs of the necessary emergency operations at eur 94,196 million. in line with previous practice, the commission proposes to take account of 2,5% of the total direct damage up to the 'significant disaster' threshold, bringing the total amount of the proposed aid to eur 31 475 125. the committee on budgets, in its report, finds that the german application fulfils the requirements laid down for determining the financial contribution from the fund and therefore proposes that parliament approve the mobilisation of the fund for the purpose of the financial contribution to be granted to germany. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance following the disaster in germany in may and june 2016 (floods in lower bavaria, in particular in the rottal-inn region). i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in connection with the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in this context, the european commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase both its commitment and payment appropriations by eur 31 475 125. the european parliament approved council position no 6/2016 on the draft amending budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in connection with the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in this context, the european commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase both its commitment and payment appropriations by eur 31 475 125. the european parliament approved council position no 6/2016 on the draft amending budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with an amount of eur 31 475 000 in commitment and payment appropriations. draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in connection with the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in this context, the european commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase both its commitment and payment appropriations by eur 31 475 000. the european parliament approved council position no 6/2016 on the draft amending budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in connection with the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in this context, the european commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase both its commitment and payment appropriations by eur 31 475 125. the european parliament approved council position no 6/2016 on the draft amending budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner and to express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in connection with the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in this context, the european commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase both its commitment and payment appropriations by eur 31 475 125. the european parliament approved council position no 6/2016 on the draft amending budget.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in connection with the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in this context, the european commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase both its commitment and payment appropriations by eur 31 475 125. the european parliament approved council position no 6/2016 on the draft amending budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 19 october 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union. on 21 november 2016, the council adopted its position on the draft and forwarded it to the european parliament. in its report, the committee on budgets notes that draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016 and therefore proposes that parliament endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 and thereby definitively adopts the amendment. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. germany submitted an application on 19 august 2016 to mobilise the fund, following a series of short but extremely severe floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the application submitted by germany meets the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide germany with the sum of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in connection with the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in this context, the european commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase both its commitment and payment appropriations by eur 31 475 125. the european parliament approved council position no 6/2016 on the draft amending budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is a special instrument defined in the mff regulation and the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations should be entered in the budget above the ceilings of the mff. i followed the s&d's position.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the use of the emergency reserves in 2017. to deal with exceptional cases, regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 established an exceptional reserve of up to 0,03% of the union's gross national income. in accordance with this, the commission calculated the maximum amount of the contingency reserve for 2017. however, it is foreseeable that the expenditure ceilings thus set will not be sustainable in 2017, and the commission has therefore proposed to mobilise an amount of eur 1164 million from the exceptional reserves above the ceiling in order to finance additional expenditure arising from the migration and humanitarian challenges. since we're on a hard road here, i've been advocating raising the ceiling.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european commission, having examined all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the contingency reserve of eur 1164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations relating to expenditure in chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the payment ceiling of eur 2578 million in current prices. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european commission, having examined all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the contingency reserve of eur 1164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations relating to expenditure in chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the payment ceiling of eur 2578 million in current prices. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european commission, having examined all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the contingency reserve of eur 1164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations relating to expenditure in chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the payment ceiling of eur 2578 million in current prices. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european commission, having examined all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the contingency reserve of eur 1164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations relating to expenditure in chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the payment ceiling of eur 2578 million in current prices. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european commission, having examined all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the contingency reserve of eur 1164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations relating to expenditure in chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the payment ceiling of eur 2578 million in current prices. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european commission, having examined all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the contingency reserve of eur 1164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations relating to expenditure in chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the payment ceiling of eur 2578 million in current prices. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european commission, having examined all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the exceptional reserve of eur 1164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations relating to expenditure under chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the payment ceiling of eur 2578 million in current prices. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european commission, having examined all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the contingency reserve of eur 1164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations relating to expenditure in chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the payment ceiling of eur 2578 million in current prices. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ article 13 of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 established an exceptional reserve of up to 0,03% of the union's gross national income. as additional funding needs are likely to arise in 2017 in relation to internal security crises and current humanitarian, migration and asylum challenges, the commission has submitted a proposal for a decision to mobilise this exceptional reserve in 2017. this is necessary in order to address the needs arising from the migration, asylum and security crisis by increasing the commitment appropriations in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 beyond the ceilings of chapters 3 and 4 of the multiannual financial framework. in its report, the committee on budgets, having regard to the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, recommends that parliament give its consent to this proposal for a decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european commission, having examined all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the contingency reserve of eur 1164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations relating to expenditure in chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, above the payment ceiling of eur 2578 million in current prices. the european parliament report adopted the commission proposal. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ after examining all the possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen commitment needs, the commission proposed in its draft budget the mobilisation of the exceptional reserve of eur 1164,4 million. i was supportive.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, asylum and security crisis. as you know, the flexibility instrument was set up in 1999 with the aim of enabling additional payments to be made when the ceiling for a budgetary objective (budget line) has been reached, without having to renegotiate the budget as a whole. the flexibility instrument was initially set at eur 200 million per year, currently eur 471 million, but could be carried over if not used. in this case, the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to supplement the resources in the general budget of the union for 2017 with eur 530 million, in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 (security and union citizenship), to finance measures in the areas of migration, asylum and security. the report also suggests that the annual amount of the flexibility instrument should be increased to eur 2 billion. we should also support the use and increase of the flexibility instrument, as the management of the migration situation requires.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the eu budget for 2017. the european parliament notes that the 2017 ceilings of chapter 3 do not provide sufficient resources to finance urgent measures related to migration, refugees and security. it therefore agrees to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 530 million. this ensures that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis are not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european parliament notes that the 2017 ceilings of chapter 3 do not provide sufficient resources to finance urgent measures related to migration, refugees and security. it therefore agrees to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations of eur 530 million. this ensures that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis are not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the eu budget for 2017. the european parliament notes that the 2017 ceilings of chapter 3 do not provide sufficient resources to finance urgent measures related to migration, refugees and security. it therefore agrees to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 530 million. this ensures that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis are not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european parliament notes that the 2017 ceilings of chapter 3 do not provide sufficient resources to finance urgent measures related to migration, refugees and security. it therefore agrees to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations of eur 530 million. this ensures that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis are not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european parliament notes that the 2017 ceilings of chapter 3 do not provide sufficient resources to finance urgent measures related to migration, refugees and security. it therefore agrees to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations of eur 530 million. this ensures that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis are not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european parliament notes that the 2017 ceilings of chapter 3 do not provide sufficient resources to finance urgent measures related to migration, refugees and security. it therefore agrees to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations of eur 530 million. this ensures that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis are not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european parliament notes that the 2017 ceilings of chapter 3 do not provide sufficient resources to finance urgent measures related to migration, refugees and security. it therefore agrees to mobilise eur 530 million from the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations. this ensures that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis are not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european parliament notes that the 2017 ceilings of chapter 3 do not provide sufficient resources to finance urgent measures related to migration, refugees and security. it therefore agrees to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations of eur 530 million. this ensures that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis are not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ under council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, the flexibility instrument is intended to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings of another chapter or chapters. the commission has presented a proposal for a decision to the european parliament and the council to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2017 with eur 530 million, in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3, to finance measures in the areas of migration, asylum and security. in its report, the committee on budgets, having regard to the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, considers that the resources available in the general budget of the european union for 2017 to finance the necessary measures in the fields of migration, asylum and security should be increased beyond the ceiling of chapter 3. it therefore proposes that parliament give its consent to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations for an amount of eur 530 million and approves the commission's proposal for a decision to that effect. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2017 is part of the agreement between the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council on the union budget for 2017. the european parliament notes that the 2017 ceilings of chapter 3 do not provide sufficient resources to finance urgent measures related to migration, refugees and security. it therefore agrees to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations of eur 530 million. this ensures that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis are not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2017 with eur 530 million, in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3, to finance measures in the areas of migration, asylum and security. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide advances from the general budget of the union for 2017. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to express european solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the fund provides financial support to member states in the event of major natural disasters, i.e. when the damage caused by a disaster exceeds eur 3 billion or 0.6% of the country's gross national income, whichever is lower. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. instead, it aims to allocate eur 50 million in the 2017 union budget in the form of commitment and payment appropriations to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000, by entering the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2017 to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance may be paid at the request of a member state after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the application to mobilise the solidarity fund. the amount of the advance shall not exceed 10% of the expected financial contribution or eur 30 million. the solidarity fund shall reinforce the clear political message of solidarity while providing the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned. the rapid reaction framework, including the payment of the advance, will enable the union to achieve these objectives. the ep therefore supported the inclusion of the above amounts in the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000, by entering the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2017 to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance may be paid at the request of a member state after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the application to mobilise the solidarity fund. the amount of the advance shall not exceed 10% of the expected financial contribution or eur 30 million. the solidarity fund shall reinforce the clear political message of solidarity while providing the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned. the rapid reaction framework, including the payment of the advance, will enable the union to achieve these objectives. the ep therefore supported the inclusion of the above amounts in the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000, by entering the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2017 to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance may be paid at the request of a member state after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the application to mobilise the solidarity fund. the amount of the advance shall not exceed 10% of the expected financial contribution or eur 30 million. the solidarity fund shall reinforce the clear political message of solidarity while providing the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned. the rapid reaction framework, including the payment of the advance, will enable the union to achieve these objectives. the ep therefore supported the inclusion of the above amounts in the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000, by entering the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2017 to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance may be paid at the request of a member state after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the application to mobilise the solidarity fund. the amount of the advance shall not exceed 10% of the expected financial contribution or eur 30 million. the solidarity fund shall reinforce the clear political message of solidarity while providing the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned. the rapid reaction framework, including the payment of the advance, will enable the union to achieve these objectives. the ep therefore supported the inclusion of the above amounts in the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 million, by way of the corresponding appropriations entered in the general budget of the union. the proposal of the european parliament and of the council for this decision aims at allocating eur 50 million in the 2017 budget of the union to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance may be paid at the request of a member state after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the application to mobilise the solidarity fund. the solidarity fund shall reinforce the clear political message of solidarity while providing the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned. the rapid reaction framework, including the payment of the advance, will enable the union to achieve these objectives. the ep therefore supported the inclusion of the above amounts in the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000, by entering the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2017 to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance may be paid at the request of a member state after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the application to mobilise the solidarity fund. the amount of the advance shall not exceed 10% of the expected financial contribution or eur 30 million. the solidarity fund shall reinforce the clear political message of solidarity while providing the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned. the rapid reaction framework, including the payment of the advance, will enable the union to achieve these objectives. the ep therefore supported the inclusion of the above amounts in the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000, by entering the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2017 to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance may be paid at the request of a member state after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the application to mobilise the solidarity fund. the amount of the advance shall not exceed 10% of the expected financial contribution or eur 30 million. the solidarity fund shall reinforce the clear political message of solidarity while providing the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned. the rapid reaction framework, including the payment of the advance, will enable the union to achieve these objectives. the ep therefore supported the inclusion of the above amounts in the 2017 budget.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000, by entering the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2017 to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance may be paid at the request of a member state after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the application to mobilise the solidarity fund. the amount of the advance shall not exceed 10% of the expected financial contribution or eur 30 million. the solidarity fund shall reinforce the clear political message of solidarity while providing the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned. the rapid reaction framework, including the payment of the advance, will enable the union to achieve these objectives. the ep therefore supported the inclusion of the above amounts in the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up after the floods of 2002. the fund shall aim to provide an immediate expression of union solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. article 10 of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million in 2011 prices, in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. in this context, the commission has submitted a proposal for a decision to the european parliament and the council which does not aim at mitigating the damage caused by a specific disaster, but at allocating eur 50 million in the 2017 union budget in the form of commitment and payment appropriations, in order to allow for the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. in its report, the committee on budgets recommends that parliament approve the draft decision. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies and express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner. in all cases where it is necessary to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources, the fund may be mobilised for the purpose of making advances up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000, by entering the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2017 to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance may be paid at the request of a member state after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the application to mobilise the solidarity fund. the amount of the advance shall not exceed 10% of the expected financial contribution or eur 30 million. the solidarity fund shall reinforce the clear political message of solidarity while providing the assistance urgently needed by the citizens concerned. the rapid reaction framework, including the payment of the advance, will enable the union to achieve these objectives. the ep therefore supported the inclusion of the above amounts in the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. i supported the current proposal.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the common draft text of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, approved by the conciliation committee in the context of the budgetary procedure. the report covers the items agreed by the council, the commission and parliament in the conciliation committee. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. perhaps the most discussed issue during the negotiations was the 5% reduction in staff. in my view, the budget is a symbol of the eu's neoliberal economic policy, and this is reflected above all in the continuing restrictions, such as the proposed 5% reduction in the number of employees, which, by the way, makes no sense except to satisfy the completely wrong german neoliberal economic policy. although a budget is obviously necessary for the functioning of the union, i rejected this budget because of the neoliberal economic policy of the union, thus expressing our disagreement with the economic policy of the union, which has had tragic results.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the eu budget can keep pace with member state implementation of regional development programmes, which will accelerate in 2017, and that cohesion funds are available in the right order of magnitude. the eu budget has the resources to allow the european commission to pay in full the bills that arise from the implementation of completed projects in the member states. it also succeeded in ensuring that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis were not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in operation. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the 2017 union budget does not include any provision for sanctions against member states that refuse to adopt mandatory quotas. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the eu budget can keep pace with member state implementation of regional development programmes, which will accelerate in 2017, and that cohesion funds are available in the right order of magnitude. the eu budget has the resources to allow the european commission to pay in full the bills that arise from the implementation of completed projects in the member states. we also managed to ensure that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis were not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the 2017 union budget does not include any provision for sanctions against member states that refuse to adopt mandatory quotas. the socialists and liberals have proposed a budgetary mechanism to punish member states that do not take in illegal immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. this attack was thwarted during the adoption of the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the eu budget can keep pace with member state implementation of regional development programmes, which will accelerate in 2017, and that cohesion funds are available in the right order of magnitude. the eu budget has the resources to allow the european commission to pay in full the bills that arise from the implementation of completed projects in the member states. we also managed to ensure that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis were not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the 2017 union budget does not include any provision for sanctions against member states that refuse to adopt mandatory quotas. the socialists and liberals have proposed a budgetary mechanism to punish member states that do not take in illegal immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. this attack was thwarted during the adoption of the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the eu budget can keep pace with member state implementation of regional development programmes, which will accelerate in 2017, and that cohesion funds are available in the right order of magnitude. the eu budget has the resources to allow the european commission to pay in full the bills that arise from the implementation of completed projects in the member states. we also managed to ensure that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis were not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the 2017 union budget does not include any provision for sanctions against member states that refuse to adopt mandatory quotas. the socialists and liberals proposed a budgetary mechanism to punish member states that failed to admit illegal immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. this attack was thwarted during the adoption of the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the eu budget can keep pace with member state implementation of regional development programmes, which will accelerate in 2017, and that cohesion funds are available in the right order of magnitude. the eu budget has the resources to allow the european commission to pay in full the bills that arise from the implementation of completed projects in the member states. we also managed to ensure that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis were not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the 2017 union budget does not include any provision for sanctions against member states that refuse to adopt mandatory quotas. the socialists and liberals have proposed a budgetary mechanism to punish member states that do not take in illegal immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. this attack was thwarted during the adoption of the 2017 budget.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the eu budget can keep pace with member state implementation of regional development programmes, which will accelerate in 2017, and that cohesion funds are available in the right order of magnitude. the eu budget has the resources to allow the european commission to pay in full the bills that arise from the implementation of completed projects in the member states. we also managed to ensure that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis were not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the 2017 union budget does not include any provision for sanctions against member states that refuse to adopt mandatory quotas. the socialists and liberals have proposed a budgetary mechanism to punish member states that do not take in illegal immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. this attack was thwarted during the adoption of the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 18 july 2016, the commission adopted the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. on 12 september 2016, the council adopted its position on this and forwarded it to parliament. parliament adopted its resolution on this on 26 october 2016, with a number of budgetary amendments to the draft. the conciliation committee, composed of delegates from parliament, the council and the commission, adopted the joint text. in its report to the conciliation committee, the delegation of the european parliament proposes that parliament approve this joint text, thereby definitively adopting the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the eu budget can keep pace with member state implementation of regional development programmes, which will accelerate in 2017, and that cohesion funds are available in the right order of magnitude. the eu budget has the resources to allow the european commission to pay in full the bills that arise from the implementation of completed projects in the member states. we also managed to ensure that the resources mobilised to deal with the migration crisis were not diverted to the detriment of other eu programmes already in place. cohesion and agricultural funds should not be reduced when determining the resources to deal with the migration crisis. the 2017 union budget does not include any provision for sanctions against member states that refuse to adopt mandatory quotas. the socialists and liberals have proposed a budgetary mechanism to punish member states that do not take in illegal immigrants despite a mandatory resettlement quota system. this attack was thwarted during the adoption of the 2017 budget. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report approving the figures for the 2017 budget with amendments. i would point out that the final budget for this year provides for a commitment appropriation of eur 157 851.8 million and a payment appropriation of eur 134 430.4 million. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. in the course of the negotiations, the european parliament succeeded in reinstating in several places the figures proposed by the european commission and reduced by the european council. accordingly, two important themes, 'growth and jobs' and 'youth employment' were reinforced with eur 200 and eur 500 million respectively. in addition, additional resources will be provided for the dairy and livestock sectors hit by the crisis (eur 500 million) and for the 'global europe' initiative for growth and jobs, which is also intended to tackle the migration and refugee crisis at its roots, with a further eur 730 million. i find the proposed figures acceptable, with the observation that, of course, the amount spent on sustainable job creation (including for young people) is never enough.
in writing. ‒ the total amount of commitment appropriations in the 2017 budget is eur 157 857,8 million. the total amount of eur 1100,1 million in commitment appropriations is thus left open below the ceilings of the mff for 2017. i supported the document.
in writing. ‒ the proposal stresses that the recent earthquakes in italy have wiped out entire villages, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, economic activity and, in many cases, historical and cultural heritage, and that consequently a major reconstruction effort is needed to repair the damage. the motion for a resolution draws attention to important issues such as the growing importance of providing adequate accommodation for homeless people as winter approaches, the need to accelerate related research to prevent this, the need to ensure advance payments for the number of affected areas as soon as possible and the need to make the most of synergies between existing instruments to ensure an effective response. i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the earthquakes in italy. the proposal stresses that the recent earthquakes in italy have wiped out entire villages, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, economic activity and, in many cases, historical and cultural heritage, and that consequently a major reconstruction effort is needed to repair the damage suffered. the motion for a resolution draws attention to important issues such as the growing importance of providing adequate accommodation for homeless people as winter approaches, the need to accelerate related research to prevent this, the need to ensure advance payments for the number of affected areas as soon as possible and the need to make the most of synergies between existing instruments to ensure an effective response.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the earthquakes in italy. the proposal stresses that the recent earthquakes in italy have wiped out entire villages, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, economic activity and, in many cases, historical and cultural heritage, and that consequently a major reconstruction effort is needed to repair the damage suffered. the motion for a resolution draws attention to important issues such as the growing importance of providing adequate accommodation for homeless people as winter approaches, the need to accelerate related research to prevent this, the need to ensure advance payments for the number of affected areas as soon as possible and the need to make the most of synergies between existing instruments to ensure an effective response.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the earthquakes in italy. the proposal stresses that the recent earthquakes in italy have wiped out entire villages, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, economic activity and, in many cases, historical and cultural heritage, and that consequently a major reconstruction effort is needed to repair the damage suffered. the motion for a resolution draws attention to important issues such as the growing importance of providing adequate accommodation for homeless people as winter approaches, the need to accelerate related research to prevent this, the need to ensure advance payments for the number of affected areas as soon as possible and the need to make the most of synergies between existing instruments to ensure an effective response.
in writing. ‒ the proposal stresses that the recent earthquakes in italy have wiped out entire villages, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, economic activity and, in many cases, historical and cultural heritage. as a consequence, a significant reconstruction effort is needed to repair the damage. the motion for a resolution draws attention to important issues such as the growing importance of providing adequate accommodation for homeless people as winter approaches, the need to accelerate related research to prevent this, the need to ensure advance payments for the number of affected areas as soon as possible and the need to make the most of synergies between existing instruments to ensure an effective response.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the earthquakes in italy. the proposal stresses that the recent earthquakes in italy have wiped out entire villages, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, economic activity and, in many cases, historical and cultural heritage, and that consequently a major reconstruction effort is needed to repair the damage suffered. the motion for a resolution draws attention to important issues such as the growing importance of providing adequate accommodation for homeless people as winter approaches, the need to accelerate related research to prevent this, the need to ensure advance payments for the number of affected areas as soon as possible and the need to make the most of synergies between existing instruments to ensure an effective response.
in writing. ‒ all eight groups tabled motions for resolutions on this subject. the groups, with the exception of the efn group, reached an agreement and tabled a joint compromise proposal. i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ the devastating earthquake in central italy on 24 august 2016 was followed by a series of aftershocks in the regions of central italy. reports indicate that more than 400 people have been injured and 290 have been killed in the recent quakes. i voted in favour of the s&d resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report is the european parliament's resolution on the financial interests of commissioners, summarising the ep's views and demands on the issue of commissioners' conflicts of interest. the proposals put forward are acceptable, their aims are clearly to promote transparency and to exclude any link with the economic sphere, but the question is whether this will be possible in practice. i also supported amendment no 1 extending the duration of post-office recruitment restrictions for commissioners for at least three years or at least for as long as the former commissioner is entitled to the transitional allowance under the relevant regulation. the commission has also been informed that jean-claude juncker has ordered an inquiry into his predecessor, josé manuel barroso, who, to the dismay of many, has recently taken up a job at goldman sachs, the us investment bank. the proposal also considers that the declaration of financial interests and, more broadly, the verification of potential conflicts of interest affecting the members of the commission should go beyond a single procedure for the appointment of the commission. in this regard, it considers that any substantial change in the financial interests of a commissioner or any reallocation of tasks between members of the commission during his or her term of office creates a new situation of possible conflict of interest and should therefore be the subject of a new parliamentary scrutiny procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the earthquakes in italy. the proposal stresses that the recent earthquakes in italy have wiped out entire villages, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, economic activity and, in many cases, historical and cultural heritage, and that consequently a major reconstruction effort is needed to repair the damage suffered. the motion for a resolution draws attention to important issues such as the growing importance of providing adequate accommodation for homeless people as winter approaches, the need to accelerate related research to prevent this, the need to ensure advance payments for the number of affected areas as soon as possible and the need to make the most of synergies between existing instruments to ensure an effective response.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's rules of procedure state, in connection with the commission's approval, that parliament expects full disclosure of information on the financial interests of commissioners-designate and that their declarations in this regard are to be sent to the committee responsible for legal affairs for scrutiny. the scope of this inquiry is outlined in the report of the legal affairs committee. it states that the verification of the absence of conflict of interest cannot be equated with the assessment of the suitability of the candidate and must be a precondition for the hearing. notes that the role of the legal affairs committee is to assess any conflict of interest and, where appropriate, to make recommendations for its resolution; these may include the waiver of certain financial interests or the modification of the portfolio. finally, it states that the examination of possible conflicts of interest between commissioners cannot be limited to the procedure for appointing the commission; any substantial change in the financial interests of a commissioner or any reallocation of tasks between members of the commission during his term of office creates a new situation for the purposes of possible conflicts of interest and should therefore be the subject of a new parliamentary examination procedure. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and the motion for a resolution because it raises the possibility of serious abuse of office and also proposes a solution. i am convinced that the declarations of interests of eu commissioners, the conflict of interest rules and the code of conduct applicable to them need to be reviewed and enforced not only for the candidate and the outgoing commissioner, but also - at least as rigorously - for the incumbent european commissioner. in considering this question, as a hungarian representative, i had in mind the recent case of my country's government, which, by lobbying the european commission, with the help, influence and advice of a commissioner in office, was promoting the adoption of a contract with an external party that was questionable from the eu's point of view. (a commissioner who, under the current conflict of interest rules, did not even consider it a matter of concern to accept a high-value favour from this lobbyist.) for me, this, together with the case of the former president of the commission in the private sector, proves that a thorough review of the european commission's rules on conflict of interest, transparency and public service ethics is warranted, to which this ep decision can provide an important stimulus.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur intends to outline the scope of the examination of financial interests by the committee on legal affairs. to this end, it intends to describe the european parliament's internal procedures for appointing the new commission and for its term of office, and the transparency requirements imposed on its members. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform on 20 april 2010 and the resulting oil pollution, the safety of offshore oil and gas activities directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements to prevent major accidents and limit the consequences of such accidents in relation to offshore oil and gas activities in the eu. as the deadline for legal harmonisation has long passed, the foundations of an eu-wide regulatory framework should now be in place. the liability systems of the member states vary, and most civil claims arising from accidents involving widespread pollution may be enforced by procedures which vary from one member state to another. with a few exceptions (france, the netherlands, denmark), the current liability rules only cover ship-related damage and are also suitable for the recovery of lost profits in the event of a direct causal link. however, there is no such convention on compensation for damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities and those conventions would in all likelihood not cover such accidents, as offshore oil and gas installations would probably not qualify as 'ships' under the convention. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that union compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities are modernised. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform on 20 april 2010 and the resulting oil pollution, the safety of offshore oil and gas activities directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements to prevent major accidents and limit the consequences of such accidents in relation to offshore oil and gas activities in the eu. as the deadline for legal harmonisation has long passed, the foundations of an eu-wide regulatory framework should now be in place. the liability systems of the member states vary, and most civil claims arising from accidents involving widespread pollution may be enforced by procedures which vary from one member state to another. with a few exceptions (france, the netherlands, denmark), the current liability rules only cover ship-related damage and are also suitable for the recovery of lost profits in the event of a direct causal link. however, there is no such convention on compensation for damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities and those conventions would in all likelihood not cover such accidents, as offshore oil and gas installations would probably not qualify as 'ships' under the convention. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that union compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities are modernised. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform on 20 april 2010 and the resulting oil pollution, the safety of offshore oil and gas activities directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements to prevent major accidents and limit the consequences of such accidents in relation to offshore oil and gas activities in the eu. as the deadline for legal harmonisation has long passed, the foundations of an eu-wide regulatory framework should now be in place. the liability systems of the member states vary, and most civil claims arising from accidents involving widespread pollution may be enforced by procedures which vary from one member state to another. with a few exceptions (france, the netherlands, denmark), the current liability rules only cover ship-related damage and are also suitable for the recovery of lost profits in the event of a direct causal link. however, there is no such convention on compensation for damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities and those conventions would in all likelihood not cover such accidents, as offshore oil and gas installations would probably not qualify as 'ships' under the convention. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that union compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities are modernised. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform on 20 april 2010 and the resulting oil pollution, the safety of offshore oil and gas activities directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements to prevent major accidents and limit the consequences of such accidents in relation to offshore oil and gas activities in the eu. as the deadline for legal harmonisation has long passed, the foundations of an eu-wide regulatory framework should now be in place. member states have different systems of liability and most civil claims arising from accidents involving widespread pollution may be enforced by different procedures in different member states. with a few exceptions (france, the netherlands, denmark), the current liability rules only cover ship-related damage and are also suitable for the recovery of lost profits in the event of a direct causal link. however, there is no such convention on compensation for damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities and those conventions would in all likelihood not cover such accidents, as offshore oil and gas installations would probably not qualify as 'ships' under the convention. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that union compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities are modernised. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform on 20 april 2010 and the resulting oil pollution, the safety of offshore oil and gas activities directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements to prevent major accidents and limit the consequences of such accidents in relation to offshore oil and gas activities in the eu. as the deadline for legal harmonisation has long passed, the foundations of an eu-wide regulatory framework should now be in place. the liability systems of the member states vary, and most civil claims arising from accidents involving widespread pollution may be enforced by procedures which vary from one member state to another. with a few exceptions (france, the netherlands, denmark), the current liability rules only cover ship-related damage and are also suitable for the recovery of lost profits in the event of a direct causal link. however, there is no such convention on compensation for damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities and those conventions would in all likelihood not cover such accidents, as offshore oil and gas installations would probably not qualify as 'ships' under the convention. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that union compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities are modernised. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform on 20 april 2010 and the resulting oil pollution, the safety of offshore oil and gas activities directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements to prevent major accidents and limit the consequences of such accidents in relation to offshore oil and gas activities in the union. as the deadline for legal harmonisation has long passed, the foundations of an eu-wide regulatory framework should now be in place. member states have different systems of liability and most civil claims arising from accidents involving widespread pollution may be enforced by different procedures in different member states. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that union compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities are modernised.
in writing. ‒ following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform on 20 april 2010 and the resulting oil pollution, the safety of offshore oil and gas activities directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements to prevent major accidents and limit the consequences of such accidents in relation to offshore oil and gas activities in the eu. as the deadline for legal harmonisation has long passed, the foundations of an eu-wide regulatory framework should now be in place. the liability systems of the member states vary, and most civil claims arising from accidents involving widespread pollution may be enforced by procedures which vary from one member state to another. with a few exceptions (france, the netherlands, denmark), the current liability rules only cover ship-related damage and are also suitable for the recovery of lost profits in the event of a direct causal link. however, there is no such convention on compensation for damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities and those conventions would in all likelihood not cover such accidents, as offshore oil and gas installations would probably not qualify as 'ships' under the convention. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that union compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities are modernised. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the legal committee report addresses the issue of liability, compensation and financial guarantees for traditional damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities. it concludes that the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that the union's compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities (i) provide for compensation for traditional damage caused by accidents to third parties in offshore oil and gas activities; (ii) establish an effective compensation system to handle the relevant payments; and (iii) ensure that economic operators and other liable parties have the appropriate financial means to meet compensation claims. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform on 20 april 2010 and the resulting oil pollution, the safety of offshore oil and gas activities directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements to prevent major accidents and limit the consequences of such accidents in relation to offshore oil and gas activities in the eu. as the deadline for legal harmonisation has long passed, the foundations of an eu-wide regulatory framework should now be in place. member states have different systems of liability and most civil claims arising from accidents involving widespread pollution may be enforced by different procedures in different member states. with a few exceptions (france, the netherlands, denmark), the current liability rules only cover ship-related damage and are also suitable for the recovery of lost profits in the event of a direct causal link. however, there is no such convention on compensation for damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities and those conventions would in all likelihood not cover such accidents, as offshore oil and gas installations would probably not qualify as 'ships' under the convention. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that union compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities are modernised. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ offshore oil and gas activity has a number of negative effects. while there is a chance of catastrophic natural disasters, these extraction methods and products also cause permanent damage that can only be remedied by joint action. of course, member states also have a responsibility in this regard. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the environmental impact of the use of plastics in the production of certain products. i supported the report, which states that activities that harm the environment and human life should be punished with severe penalties, the precautionary principle should be applied and compensation should be linked to collective redress. the directive on marine fossil extraction was adopted in 2013, but its transposition in the member states is lagging behind in several countries. one very important tool for mitigating damage is the 'polluter pays' principle, which has already been introduced in other areas of european legislation. in the case of hungary, this approach was also clearly expressed in the european parliament resolution on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the red sands disaster. a transparent and rapid compensation process and a strict monitoring system are required. we must phase out fossil and nuclear energy as gradually and as rapidly as possible.
in writing. ‒ offshore oil and gas activities are increasingly taking place farther from land and often in much deeper waters than before. some activities are carried out in extremely difficult conditions, such as in the arctic, or in places where a large part of the income is dependent on tourism, such as the mediterranean or the aegean. i supported the document.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution on the subject was tabled by the verts/ale, efdd, gue/ngl, ecr, ppe, alde and s&d groups. with the exception of gue/ngl, the political groups reached an agreement and drew up a joint compromise resolution. that's what i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the resolution in which the european parliament expresses its grave concern at the deterioration of the internal situation in the democratic republic of the congo. in my view, the eu cannot accept that the congolese government, in breach of its international commitments, including the cotonou agreement, is not guaranteeing the democratic rights of the opposition, is violently attacking those who oppose it and is allowing the spread of street violence. i agree that the eu, through the eeas and the high representative, should take a strong stance to promote the democratisation that is essential for the economic and social development of this key country in the central african region. i also expect the european parliament's decision to support the work of the high representative and to contribute to a more favourable political process in the democratic republic of congo and thus in the region as a whole.
in writing. ‒ regarding congo, human rights groups have repeatedly reported that the human rights situation in the country has deteriorated in the run-up to the elections, with the freedom of expression, assembly and protest being weakened, including through the use of excessive force against peaceful protesters, journalists, political leaders and others. i voted in favour of the s&d motion.
in writing. ‒ i believe that training of skilled and highly qualified local staff should be a priority in order to ensure access to energy in developing countries and that a significant part of funding should be devoted to this objective. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the development committee report looks at the access to energy for people in developing countries. the commission has also launched a new initiative to reduce energy poverty, to take on public and governmental tasks related to electrification, to ensure that an additional 500 million people in developing countries have access to sustainable energy sources by 2030, to address the huge african potential of renewable energy, to improve the coordination of various international initiatives to promote access to energy, to address the problems of access to water and food security, to phase out subsidies for fossil fuels and to achieve universal access to energy with minimal greenhouse gas emissions. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution calls for the provision of clean energy to developing countries. given the objectives of the marrakesh climate summit and the fact that these countries are the ones most affected by climate change, i voted in favour of the motion. i agree that sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is essential to meet basic human needs and rights and is one of the foundations of development. of course, there are security and geopolitical aspects to this, because energy issues can lead to conflict. i therefore agree that the energy poverty situation of developing countries should be taken into account and that the eu should play a strong role in reducing it. in each country, priority should be given to clean energy according to the specific capabilities, for example, in african countries, diversified renewable solar, hydro and wind energy production would be the right solution, especially in rural areas. all of this is to avoid that eliminating energy poverty means not increasing emissions.
in writing. ‒ the objective of achieving universal access to energy is closely linked to the objective of achieving climate justice. i supported the social democratic position on the matter.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report of the european parliament concerns the evaluation of the implementation of the european order for payment (eufmh) directive. the eufmh aims to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, which means that it is available as an alternative to the many equivalent national procedures in cross-border cases. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain payment orders for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. an application for an order may be submitted by post or by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be executed in another member state without further formalities. a number of legal issues have arisen in relation to the transposition of the directive. first of all, the interest rate, the automation of the procedure, the forms and the use of languages. overall, the directive has provided a good procedural basis and the experience gained in its implementation does not justify any urgent amendment. however, the commission should pay due attention to the application of the directive in the future. in agreement with the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report of the european parliament concerns the evaluation of the implementation of the european order for payment (eufmh) directive. the eufmh aims to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, which means that it is available as an alternative to the many equivalent national procedures in cross-border cases. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain payment orders for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. an application for an order may be submitted by post or by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be executed in another member state without further formalities. a number of legal issues have arisen in relation to the transposition of the directive. first of all, the interest rate, the automation of the procedure, the forms and the use of languages. overall, the directive has provided a good procedural basis and the experience gained in its implementation does not justify any urgent amendment. however, the commission should pay due attention to the application of the directive in the future. in agreement with the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report of the european parliament concerns the evaluation of the implementation of the european order for payment (eufmh) directive. the eufmh aims to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, which means that it is available as an alternative to the many equivalent national procedures in cross-border cases. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain payment orders for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. an application for an order may be submitted by post or by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be executed in another member state without further formalities. a number of legal issues have arisen in relation to the transposition of the directive. first of all, the interest rate, the automation of the procedure, the forms and the use of languages. overall, the directive has provided a good procedural basis and the experience gained in its implementation does not justify any urgent amendment. however, the commission should pay due attention to the application of the directive in the future. in agreement with the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report of the european parliament concerns the evaluation of the implementation of the european order for payment (eufmh) directive. the eufmh aims to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, which means that it is available as an alternative to the many equivalent national procedures in cross-border cases. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain payment orders for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. an application for an order may be submitted by post or by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be executed in another member state without further formalities. a number of legal issues have arisen in relation to the transposition of the directive. first of all, the interest rate, the automation of the procedure, the forms and the use of languages. overall, the directive has provided a good procedural basis and the experience gained in its implementation does not justify any urgent amendment. however, the commission should pay due attention to the application of the directive in the future. in agreement with the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report of the european parliament concerns the evaluation of the implementation of the european order for payment (eufmh) directive. the eufmh aims to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, which means that it is available as an alternative to the many equivalent national procedures in cross-border cases. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain payment orders for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. an application for an order may be submitted by post or by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be executed in another member state without further formalities. a number of legal issues have arisen in relation to the transposition of the directive. first of all, the interest rate, the automation of the procedure, the forms and the use of languages. overall, the directive has provided a good procedural basis and the experience gained in its implementation does not justify any urgent amendment. however, the commission should pay due attention to the application of the directive in the future. in agreement with the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report of the european parliament concerns the evaluation of the implementation of the european order for payment (eufmh) directive. the eufmh aims to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, which means that it is available as an alternative to the many equivalent national procedures in cross-border cases. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain payment orders for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. an application for an order may be submitted by post or by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be executed in another member state without further formalities. a number of legal issues have arisen in relation to the transposition of the directive. first of all, the interest rate, the automation of the procedure, the forms and the use of languages. overall, the directive has provided a good procedural basis and the experience gained in its implementation does not justify any urgent amendment. however, the commission should pay due attention to the application of the directive in the future.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report of the european parliament concerns the evaluation of the implementation of the european order for payment (eufmh) directive. the eufmh aims to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, which means that it is available as an alternative to the many equivalent national procedures in cross-border cases. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain payment orders for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. an application for an order may be submitted by post or by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be executed in another member state without further formalities. a number of legal issues have arisen in relation to the transposition of the directive. first of all, the interest rate, the automation of the procedure, the forms and the use of languages. overall, the directive has provided a good procedural basis and the experience gained in its implementation does not justify any urgent amendment. however, the commission should pay due attention to the application of the directive in the future. in agreement with the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 establishes the european order for payment procedure. it aims to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings. it allows creditors to easily obtain payment orders for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. an application for an order may be submitted by post or by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be executed in another member state without further formalities. the report of the committee on legal affairs states that while the main advantage of the procedure is in principle simplicity and speed, in some member states the issuing of an order can take up to six months. it shall take into account the problems of filling in and submitting the relevant forms online and the fact that in many member states it is not possible to submit the application in a foreign language. it follows the european court of justice's ruling that the effectiveness of consumer protection law requires that the court at least examine whether the contractual term on the basis of which the undertaking is seeking payment is fair to the consumer. the report calls for the european order for payment regulation to address these problems. i voted for its acceptance.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report of the european parliament concerns the evaluation of the implementation of the european order for payment (eufmh) directive. the eufmh aims to facilitate the recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, which means that it is available as an alternative to the many equivalent national procedures in cross-border cases. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain payment orders for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. an application for an order may be submitted by post or by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be executed in another member state without further formalities. a number of legal issues have arisen in relation to the transposition of the directive. first of all, the interest rate, the automation of the procedure, the forms and the use of languages. overall, the directive has provided a good procedural basis and the experience gained in its implementation does not justify any urgent amendment. however, the commission should pay due attention to the application of the directive in the future. in agreement with the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure, which welcomes the successful operation of the procedure. the procedure allows for easier recovery of amounts in cross-border proceedings, which is why i find it regrettable that its use varies significantly from one member state to another and that, despite the simplified modern procedure offered by eu law, national legislation is preferred in many places. i agree with the report that there is a need to inform union citizens, businesses and legal professionals about the availability, operation, application and benefits of the european order for payment in cross-border cases. i also agree with the conclusion that improved knowledge would enable companies, especially smes, to enforce their cross-border claims more effectively under the relevant eu legislation. i also support the possibility of electronic submission of european order for payment applications, in which context it would be useful to encourage the use of the e-codex pilot project.
in writing. ‒ the european order for payment procedure aims to facilitate the recovery of sums in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, which means that it is available as an alternative to the many equivalent national procedures in cross-border cases. i was supportive.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity, mr president, and thank you to the member for your willingness to respond. you mentioned sustainability concerns about this package and also the social dimension. it's a very comprehensive picture, but i would ask you one thing: have the privatisations or the opening ups so far changed education, training, as far as the railway professions are concerned?
mr president, as an epp shadow on governance, first and foremost i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sassoli, for his work and his openness to cooperation during the difficult negotiations. i would also like to thank the commission and the dutch presidency for their commitment and efforts in finding consensual solutions, which are sometimes very hard. i am very happy that we have finally managed at this stage to round off the fourth railway package. i would like to welcome the fact that, despite some pressure, we have managed to deal with the political and the technical parts of the package together and that the technical documents did not become the victim of some political gains. i think that the agreed text is a further positive step in creating a single european railway area. it will improve the quality of railway services by making them more dynamic and customer oriented. that is why the epp group supported all reasonable and constructive initiatives during the whole negotiation process. we have achieved a balanced text that strengthens the governance of railway infrastructure managers, prevents conflict of interests and increases the financial transparency between infrastructure managers and rail operators. it also preserves the equal position of vertically integrated and separated company structures, and exemptions are guaranteed for special separate lines. it is time now to move forward with the implementation.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as one of the shadow rapporteurs on this report, you are obviously biased in relation to the report, but as we discussed in the previous subject, the railway package, one of the unfortunate features of these framework agreements is that training, education, is always put in the background somewhere. i ask you: are you satisfied with the amount of training and education provided by this current project?
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, mr józsef nagy, for his efforts to reach agreement and for the preparation of the compromise proposals. as you know, the purpose of the annual report is to examine the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. the european union today faces many challenges, and these challenges can only be met sustainably and morally by defending the eu's common values of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. these values should therefore be protected in themselves and in the context of other initiatives by the member states and the european union. in 2015, a number of member states experienced problems with human rights in various areas. hate crimes and hate speech have reached alarming levels, including here in the european parliament. in several member states, the right to freedom of assembly, the free functioning of ngos, the freedom of the media have been violated, institutional discrimination and xenophobia continue to be perpetuated, with minorities, the roma minority, lgbti people and refugees as the main targets. the exclusion and vile hate speech against refugees is particularly repugnant. the anti-refugee rhetoric of the far right has fueled xenophobia and anti-islamism in many european countries. homophobia, exclusionary speech, discrimination against gays, has increased in several european countries. the situation of roma communities in europe is extremely worrying, as they are still treated as second-class citizens in many countries. several european countries have still not ratified the istanbul convention, which could be one of the most important tools to reduce violence against women, domestic violence. these few examples show, madam president, the great need for this report and the great need for decisive political action.
in writing. the situation of fundamental rights in the european union did not show significant progress in 2015, especially with regard to minority rights. i would like to draw attention to the fact that minority communities continue to face barriers to the exercise of their linguistic rights, to access to justice and other public services such as education, health and social services. member states should make further efforts to remove disproportionate administrative and legislative barriers that may hinder linguistic diversity at european or national level. i would encourage the commission to set a policy standard for the protection of minorities in line with the copenhagen criteria, which apply to both candidate and member states. there is a need to exchange good practices and apply best practice in addressing minority issues throughout the european union. i would encourage those member states which have not yet done so to ratify as soon as possible the framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages, and those which have ratified to comply with them. this applies to both candidate and association countries. member states should guarantee the right to use minority languages and protect linguistic diversity within the union. i propose to strengthen the commission's plan for the teaching and use of regional languages, as this is the way to tackle linguistic discrimination in the eu.
in writing. i was pleased to note that this year's report also deals with the rights and protection of minorities in the european union in a separate section, thanks to the amendments proposed by meps, which significantly improved the initial draft. the report also contains several important points for the future of minority protection in europe. first of all, i would like to stress the importance of ratifying international and regional human rights treaties, which would allow the establishment of uniform systems for the protection of minorities throughout europe. i would like to ask those member states which have not yet done so to ratify them as soon as possible. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the need to develop and adopt common policy standards for the protection of minorities in the eu, also with a view to clarifying the copenhagen criteria and their application both in the member states and in the candidate countries. without them, the establishment of a system of protection of minorities at eu level is unthinkable. the report also addresses the importance of minority and regional languages. i would like to mention here a particular aspect of language discrimination, which is called geo-blocking. for example, geographical restrictions on digital content prevent minorities from accessing publicly useful content in their mother tongue. i sincerely hope that in the future we will be able to report on real progress in these areas.
in writing. the section on national minorities in the report on the situation of fundamental rights is good. i am particularly pleased that the etuc 1985-2014 report, the so-called kalmár report, and the call for it to be part of eu law have been highlighted. the report also welcomes the urgency of using minority languages to preserve the linguistic diversity of the union. similar calls are urgently needed to counter the anti-minority trends currently prevailing in europe, where eu member states restrict the use of the mother tongues of traditional national minorities and prohibit and sanction the use of their national symbols. the commission should be expected to take action on minority protection and not justify its inaction by saying that it is not a matter of eu competence. and european decision-makers are rightly expected to give equal attention to and condemn these violations insofar as they consider the rights of traditional national minorities to be part of fundamental rights.
madam president, on this subject, the rapporteurs and other speakers will certainly have much to say about the activities in the eastern partnership countries, in terms of equal opportunities for women and improving their situation in general, but perhaps these same words should be said to ourselves again and again, from time to time. it is no coincidence that the istanbul convention has not yet been fully ratified, even by the member states of the european union, and i have to give the sad example of my own country as a specific case. hungary has also refused to ratify the istanbul convention. if we have a quantified system to measure the role and weight of the measures taken in the eastern partnership, i think it would be good to apply the same metrics to the member states of the european union, and then we could avoid having to measure others and ourselves by two different standards. i would say that's a very european idea.
madam president, the hungarian government decided last week to withdraw from the open government partnership, an international organization that works to create transparent governance and fight corruption. this makes hungary the second state after russia to voluntarily withdraw from this organization, according to the official justification, because it unfairly criticized budapest. however, it is likely that the orbán government wanted to prevent the suspension of membership of the organisation due to the continuous violations. i call on the members of the european parliament to condemn the hungarian government's alignment with russian norms and to strongly call on the hungarian government to return to european values. it is time for the european union to give a clear and firm answer to putin's policy of winning european space.
madam president, "clean energy for all", the title is loud, the goal is beautiful. but there are some questions that need to be answered. how much of the energy we need to produce can we realistically imagine being clean energy? when we talk about green energy, do we consider the limitations? there are natural constraints, there are systems constraints, and there are subsidy constraints. and do we expect the same from all member states? hungary has an installed electricity capacity of 9,000 megawatts. by 2030, that's going to be 13,000. the power plant is old, we need 8,000 megawatts of new capacity. it's unthinkable that a significant portion of this is green energy. and one more question: the title is not renewable energy for all, clean energy. let us note that nuclear energy is indeed a clean energy in terms of climate change. and so far, i haven't heard one positive reference from ten speakers.
madam president, in recent years, the price of gas on the world market has fallen by 40%, but the hungarian government has reduced the price of gas for the population by only 10%. the difference was either absorbed by the state or the extra profits went to the pockets of the government-owned enterprises. the hungarian official gas price, which the hungarian prime minister is imagining as another brussels attack on hungary, is used to keep gas prices high in hungary, precisely by means of official prices. in hungary, the official gas price does not reduce, but on the contrary, increases the price of gas for the population. therefore, honourable commissioners, the problem in hungary is not with the institution of official prices. we're all for that. the real problem is that the hungarian government, with the express purpose of corruption, gives the population gas at a much higher price than what it costs on the world market. but we have to do it together.
mr president, i understand that in the biofuels part of the package we are encouraging the production of advanced technologies, but first generation biofuels also make sense. i think that the latter's target of reducing the cereals sector from 7% to 3.8% is excessive in the cereals sector, and more specifically in the maize sector in europe. remember, transporting grain and corn overland for more than 300 miles already involves significant energy costs and significant environmental damage. therefore, it is worth processing them locally. furthermore, consider that the production of biofuels also produces significant amounts of feed and other useful products. i therefore propose that a specific target number be set for the countries of the cereals or maize zones.
in writing. we have taken another important step towards the energy union. we have initially set up the framework which can serve as the basis for the energy union. we then went a step further and developed several sub-strategy and regulations on natural gas as part of last year's winter package. and now we have this year's winter package, which is designed to integrate the electricity market more deeply. we have seen a lot of integration efforts in the price market, from the interconnection of markets through the measures of the third energy package, but we have not yet managed to develop a system that would really serve the interests of consumers. some of the problems are natural, as technological progress is constantly bringing new challenges. i think it is time to rethink the whole of price regulation and to develop a system that meets the challenges of the age. it is vital that we keep our goals in mind as we go through the redesign process, delving into the details. as the commission has stated, the main objective of the current and all-time reform package is to support consumers. all other considerations and expectations can only be secondary. i hope that the work we are now beginning will enable us to create a system that provides more accessible, reliable and affordable energy for consumers, thereby improving the union's competitiveness.
mr president, let us go back to the beginning: why reform the rules of procedure at all? if we ask this question, the answer is, or should be, clear: to make the work of parliament more effective; to improve it. if nothing else we owe this to the citizens whom we represent, and it follows. this is very much in the interest of parliament itself. does anyone actually want to be a member of a badly-functioning parliament? a great deal of work has gone into the preparation of the new rules of procedure. some of it is technical – necessarily so; the outcome is that they are a more coherent, more cogent set of rules by which parliament operates. but this reform also means innovation, meaning that some of the rules to which we had become accustomed will change. while we all subscribe to change in theory, there are those who dislike it in practice. restructuring the rules of procedure was a complex and lengthy task involving high levels of experience. in other words, we are looking at expertise in action. to reject this expertise would be tantamount to the worst kind of populism, the kind that in other contexts we denounce every day of the week. with the new rules of procedure, the work of parliament will become more accountable and more focused. it will undergo a modernisation to bring it into line as co-legislator under the lisbon treaty. one particular innovation should be universally welcome. mep ranking has been generally deleterious to the work of parliament, and other colleagues have said the same thing. under the new rules, these excesses that mep ranking has induced should be curbed. so, as epp coordinator, my congratulations to mr corbett and the other members of the working group. this reform should be supported unreservedly.
in writing. ‒ the council has adopted a draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's republic of algeria in union programmes. the council must obtain parliament's consent before adopting the draft. in its report, the committee on foreign affairs proposed that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its assent, on a proposal from the council, to the framework agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of algeria, of the other part, on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean cooperation agreement, which allows and regulates, at the level of the principles, algeria's participation in the various programmes operated by the european union. i took note that this would not only meet the legal adaptation required by the treaty of lisbon but would also help the algerian economy and society to make better use of the opportunities for cooperation with the union and its member states in the euromed framework, in order to promote the development and democratisation of the country. in the current uncertain political situation in the maghreb countries and the eu's entire mediterranean neighbourhood, i believe that closer ties of this kind are also useful for the stability of the region and the security of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the proposal states that the european parliament agrees to the conclusion of the protocol and instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council, the commission, the governments and parliaments of the member states and the people's democratic republic of algeria. i was very much in favour of the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ on 10 december 2013, parliament adopted its position at first reading on the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing council regulation (ec) no 2347/2002. the council subsequently discussed the proposal in detail between january 2014 and november 2015. the negotiating groups of parliament and the council reached an agreement on the proposal following five rounds of trilateral consultations held between 17 november 2015 and 30 june 2016. the text of the agreement was adopted by the committee on fisheries on 12 july 2016. the council then adopted its position at first reading confirming the agreement. in its report, the committee on fisheries recommends that parliament agree with the council's position adopted at first reading, given that it is in line with the agreement reached in the trialogue. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on deep-sea stocks and fisheries, which has already been submitted to the european parliament for second reading. compared to the first, three years ago, significant compromises have been made to make fishing in international waters sustainable. the recommendation suggests that the eu firstly define the area where deep-sea fishing is allowed, thereby freezing its fishing footprint. this geographical limit will apply to vessels fishing for deep-sea species, i.e. those whose catches of deep-sea species represent more than 8% of the total catch. it also stresses that parliament has envisaged specific sanctions against those who infringe the regulation. the compromise agreed on a 800-metre-deep limit that will better protect the endangered deep-sea ecosystem. i think it is important to mention that new, stricter transparency rules are being introduced by introducing obligations to make information on vessels fishing for european deep-sea species available to the public and to report all catches. the commission will assess this data annually and adjust the fishing zone accordingly (by means of implementing acts).
in writing. ‒ following the parliament's position adopted at first reading in plenary on 10 december 2013, the council discussed the proposal in detail between january 2014 and november 2015, coinciding with the negotiations launched during the luxembourg presidency to reach an agreement at second reading. i voted against the efdd proposal, in line with the s&d practice.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the rules of procedure will make the european parliament more efficient, transparent and accountable to citizens, and this modernisation will make the ep a true co-legislator in line with the lisbon treaty. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the rules of procedure will make the european parliament more efficient, transparent and accountable to citizens, and this modernisation will make the ep a true co-legislator in line with the lisbon treaty. that is why i voted in favour of the corbett report.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the rules of procedure will make the european parliament more efficient, transparent and accountable to citizens, and this modernisation will make the ep a true co-legislator in line with the lisbon treaty. that is why i voted in favour of the corbett report.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the rules of procedure will make the european parliament more efficient, transparent and accountable to citizens, and will modernise it to make it a genuine co-legislator in line with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the rules of procedure will make the european parliament more efficient, transparent and accountable to citizens, and this modernisation will make the ep a true co-legislator in line with the lisbon treaty. that is why i voted in favour of the corbett report.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the rules of procedure will make the european parliament more efficient, transparent and accountable to citizens, and this modernisation will make the ep a true co-legislator in line with the lisbon treaty. that is why i voted in favour of the corbett report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament shall regularly review its rules of procedure. this amendment was proposed by an eight-party working group after 18 months of deliberation. the purpose of the proposed recast was to make parliament more functional, to make the rules clearer, to increase transparency and to protect the functioning of parliament from political elements that would sabotage its work. in its report, the committee on constitutional affairs proposed that parliament amend its rules of procedure on 284 points on the basis of the proposal of the working group. however, the majority, unlike me, did not vote on amendments that would have ensured greater transparency, greater publicity in the functioning of parliament, and tightened the procedure for making a declaration of assets. in my view, this defeated the most important objective of the review and i therefore voted against such an amendment to the rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the rules of procedure will make the european parliament more efficient, transparent and accountable to citizens, and this modernisation will make the ep a true co-legislator in line with the lisbon treaty. that is why i voted in favour of the corbett report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the review of the european parliament's rules of procedure and the detailed package of proposals, as i believe that the many amendments envisaged are mainly intended to improve the transparency, efficiency, speed and political and practical effectiveness of parliament's work. i have seen for myself the rationale for most of the changes in my day-to-day work in parliament, reflecting practical experience and inevitable political compromises, while also meeting the requirements agreed in the framework of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. i think it is equally important and necessary to make corrections to the rules on the election of members, the rules on conflicts of interest and the rules of conduct, and to the respect for democratic standards, so as to help preserve and strengthen the credibility of the european parliament in the eyes of the european citizens. however, i have had to reject several amendments, since i do not agree with the abolition of written declarations, the unjustified restriction of explanations of vote or, for example, the restriction of the right of members to table amendments on the basis of their membership of the committee.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the rules of procedure will make the european parliament more efficient, transparent and accountable to citizens, and this modernisation will make the ep a true co-legislator in line with the lisbon treaty. that is why i voted in favour of the corbett report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the operation of the european parliament, certain corrections to its general rules of procedure during the vote, in the interests of transparency, efficiency and genuine citizen representation.
in writing. ‒ the situation of fundamental rights in the european union did not show significant progress in 2015, especially with regard to minority rights. i would like to draw attention to the fact that minority communities continue to face barriers to the exercise of their linguistic rights, to access to justice and other public services such as education, health and social services. member states should make further efforts to remove disproportionate administrative and legislative barriers that may hinder linguistic diversity at european or national level. i would encourage the commission to set a policy standard for the protection of minorities in line with the copenhagen criteria, which apply to both candidate and member states. there is a need to exchange good practices and apply best practice in addressing minority issues throughout the european union. i would encourage those member states which have not yet done so to ratify as soon as possible the framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages, and those which have ratified to comply with them. this applies to both candidate and association countries. member states should guarantee the right to use minority languages and protect linguistic diversity within the union. i propose to strengthen the commission's plan for the teaching and use of regional languages, as this is the way to tackle linguistic discrimination in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the part of the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights adopted by the european parliament concerning national and linguistic minorities, unlike in previous years, has been particularly strong. the fidesz-kdnp delegation therefore supported this political decision, which had no legal relevance, following the recommendation of the people's party. however, it voted against the text on a number of points, including those falling within the competence of the member states. it is of particular importance that the text includes the best minority protection report in recent years, the reference to the kalmár report of the council of europe, and the call for it to become part of eu law. the rights of persons belonging to national minorities are human and fundamental rights which the union is bound to respect under the treaty on european union. it is therefore right to expect european decision-makers, and in particular the european commission, to treat these violations with the same attention and condemnation as they do the rights of traditional national minorities, insofar as they are considered as part of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the part of the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights adopted by the european parliament concerning national and linguistic minorities, unlike in previous years, has been particularly strong. the fidesz/kdnp delegation therefore supported this political decision, which had no legal relevance, following the recommendation of the people's party. however, it voted against the text on a number of points, including those falling within the competence of the member states. it is of particular importance that the text includes the best minority protection report in recent years, the reference to the kalmár report of the council of europe, and the call for it to become part of eu law. the rights of persons belonging to national minorities are human and fundamental rights which the union is bound to respect under the treaty on european union. it is therefore right to expect european decision-makers, and in particular the european commission, to treat these violations with the same attention and condemnation as they do the rights of traditional national minorities, insofar as they are considered as part of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the part of the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights adopted by the european parliament concerning national and linguistic minorities, unlike in previous years, has been particularly strong. the fidesz-kdnp delegation therefore supported this political decision, which had no legal relevance, following the recommendation of the people's party. however, it voted against the text on a number of points, including those falling within the competence of the member states. it is of particular importance that the text includes the best minority protection report in recent years, the reference to the kalmár report of the council of europe, and the call for it to become part of eu law. the rights of persons belonging to national minorities are human and fundamental rights which the union is bound to respect under the treaty on european union. it is therefore right to expect european decision-makers, and in particular the european commission, to treat these violations with the same attention and condemnation as they do the rights of traditional national minorities, insofar as they are considered as part of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the part of the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights adopted by the european parliament concerning national and linguistic minorities, unlike in previous years, has been particularly strong. the fidesz/kdnp delegation therefore supported this political decision, which had no legal relevance, following the recommendation of the people's party. however, it voted against the text on a number of points, including those falling within the competence of the member states. it is of particular importance that the text includes the best minority protection report in recent years, the reference to the kalmár report of the council of europe, and the call for it to become part of eu law. the rights of persons belonging to national minorities are human and fundamental rights which the union is bound to respect under the treaty on european union. it is therefore right to expect european decision-makers, and in particular the european commission, to treat these violations with the same attention and condemnation as they do the rights of traditional national minorities, insofar as they are considered as part of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the part of the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights adopted by the european parliament concerning national and linguistic minorities, unlike in previous years, has been particularly strong. the fidesz-kdnp delegation therefore supported this political decision, which had no legal relevance, following the recommendation of the people's party. however, it voted against the text on a number of points, including those falling within the competence of the member states. it is of particular importance that the text includes the best minority protection report in recent years, the reference to the kalmár report of the council of europe, and the call for it to become part of eu law. the rights of persons belonging to national minorities are human and fundamental rights which the union is bound to respect under the treaty on european union. it is therefore right to expect european decision-makers, and in particular the european commission, to treat these violations with the same attention and condemnation as they do the rights of traditional national minorities, insofar as they are considered as part of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is very thorough: it takes into account the rights of women, children, minorities, persons with disabilities, the elderly, roma and lgbti people. it addresses some of the most important and topical issues for the promotion of human rights, such as migration, integration and social inclusion, trafficking in human beings and discrimination, xenophobia, hate crime and hate speech. with regard to migration, i consider it particularly important that the draft (a) states that the fundamental rights of migrants and refugees are violated in many cases at the external borders of the european union and calls on the member states and the eu institutions to respect international and eu law and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in border control actions and asylum procedures; (b) calls for reception conditions that do not deprive people of their fundamental right to a decent standard of living and to physical and mental health and that are in line with existing fundamental rights and asylum legislation; (c) calls on the member states to refrain from inciting fear and hatred towards migrants and refugees among their citizens for political gain. i voted in favour of the adoption of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the part of the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights adopted by the european parliament concerning national and linguistic minorities, unlike in previous years, has been particularly strong. the fidesz/kdnp delegation therefore supported this political decision, which had no legal relevance, following the recommendation of the people's party. however, it voted against the text on a number of points, including those falling within the competence of the member states. it is of particular importance that the text includes the best minority protection report in recent years, the reference to the kalmár report of the council of europe, and the call for it to become part of eu law. the rights of persons belonging to national minorities are human and fundamental rights which the union is bound to respect under the treaty on european union. it is therefore right to expect european decision-makers, and in particular the european commission, to treat these violations with the same attention and condemnation as they do the rights of traditional national minorities, insofar as they are considered as part of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the report, which gives a comprehensive and fundamentally realistic picture of the application of fundamental human rights in the member states of the european union. i consider it important that the summary gives due weight to the violations that threaten the most vulnerable groups in society, such as violence against women and children, discrimination against certain minorities, and various forms of hate speech. the report also addresses, in a manner appropriate to its relevance and timeliness, the responsibilities of the union and the member states in the face of new fundamental rights challenges and problems arising from the refugee crisis and the wave of migration. however, as an mep from a member state which is unfortunately perhaps the most affected by official wrongdoing - such as the rule of law, the breakdown of democratic political rights, the unlawful and inhumane treatment of refugees, and the continued discrimination against roma and other minorities - i would have found it appropriate to condemn more strongly, in some parts of the report, practices that are contrary to european standards, rather than general terms that blur the member states' specific responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on member states, inter alia, to: refrain from creating fear and hatred among their citizens towards migrants and asylum seekers for political gain. as a committed opposition to the orbán regime, i supported the document, along with other important findings in the report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to draw the attention of policy-makers to the fundamental difficulties and lack of resources of the cultural and creative sectors and to make proposals in this regard. the sector is underfunded and has a difficult rate of return across europe, which in many cases discourages investors. the sector is severely affected by the difficulties in the enforcement of patents and copyright due to the widespread consumer use of digital and online platforms. the report calls for proposals for solutions, guarantee instruments and dedicated resources under horizon 2020 to address these problems. the rapporteur advocates the promotion of cultural activities not only in traditional craft trades but also in the visual and performing arts, especially those related to folk arts, and thus the preservation of culture. the rapporteur calls positively on the commission and the member states to 'take care to safeguard cultural heritage, cultural and linguistic diversity and traditional knowledge, as well as european and national, regional and local expertise'. this represents a new resource and opportunity for hungarian minorities across the border, which also obliges the member states concerned to promote the preservation of cultural diversity by enhancing the rights to minority language education and the use of minority languages.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the need to support innovative and research-oriented european cultural and creative industries, which can ensure the preservation of linguistic and cultural diversity, while offering innovative and high-quality services. this includes, for example, various works of art, audiovisual products (films, television programmes, video games), music, cultural heritage, festivals, etc. the creative and cultural industries contribute to the preservation and transmission of european knowledge and values, while also contributing to the creation of jobs, investment and competitiveness. the future of the creative and cultural industries is therefore particularly important. creative industries are particularly strong in the european r&d market. in many cases, low barriers to entry allow people to enter the frontier of a given area who would otherwise be unable to invest in more capital-intensive investments. this feature also opens up the possibility for a wider range of people to participate in european innovation. creativity is rooted in all forms of culture and art and should be an integral part of education. it is therefore particularly important to remind member states to include arts, music, theatre and film education in their school curricula, as these are key factors in deepening knowledge of cultural heritage, artistic practice and creativity.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the need to support innovative and research-oriented european cultural and creative industries, which can ensure the preservation of linguistic and cultural diversity, while offering innovative and high-quality services. this includes, for example, various works of art, audiovisual products (films, television programmes, video games), music, cultural heritage, festivals, etc. the creative and cultural industries contribute to the preservation and transmission of european knowledge and values, while also contributing to the creation of jobs, investment and competitiveness. the future of the creative and cultural industries is therefore particularly important. creative industries are particularly strong in the european r&d market. in many cases, low barriers to entry allow people to enter the frontier of a given area who would otherwise be unable to invest in more capital-intensive investments. this feature also opens up the possibility for a wider range of people to participate in european innovation. creativity is rooted in all forms of culture and art and should be an integral part of education. it is therefore particularly important to remind member states to include arts, music, theatre and film education in their school curricula, as these are key factors in deepening knowledge of cultural heritage, artistic practice and creativity.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the support for innovative and research-oriented european cultural and creative industries, which can ensure the preservation of linguistic and cultural diversity, while offering innovative and high-quality services, which is why i voted in favour of the initiative as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the need to support innovative and research-oriented european cultural and creative industries, which can ensure the preservation of linguistic and cultural diversity, while offering innovative and high-quality services. this includes, for example, various works of art, audiovisual products (films, television programmes, video games), music, cultural heritage, festivals, etc. the creative and cultural industries help to preserve and transmit european knowledge and values, while also contributing to increasing employment, investment and competitiveness. the future of the creative and cultural industries is therefore particularly important. these industries are particularly important in the european r&d market. in many cases, low barriers to entry allow people to enter the frontier of a given area who would otherwise be unable to invest in more capital-intensive investments. this feature also opens up the possibility for a wider range of people to participate in european innovation. creativity is rooted in all forms of culture and art and should be an integral part of education. it is therefore particularly important to remind member states to include arts, music, theatre and film education in their school curricula, as these are key factors in deepening knowledge of cultural heritage, artistic practice and creativity.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the need to support innovative and research-oriented european cultural and creative industries, which can ensure the preservation of linguistic and cultural diversity, while offering innovative and high-quality services. this includes, for example, various works of art, audiovisual products (films, television programmes, video games), music, cultural heritage, festivals, etc. the creative and cultural industries contribute to the preservation and transmission of european knowledge and values, while also contributing to the creation of jobs, investment and competitiveness. the future of the creative and cultural industries is therefore particularly important. creative industries are particularly strong in the european r&d market. in many cases, low barriers to entry allow people to enter the frontier of a given area who would otherwise be unable to invest in more capital-intensive investments. this feature also opens up the possibility for a wider range of people to participate in european innovation. creativity is rooted in all forms of culture and art and should be an integral part of education. it is therefore particularly important to remind member states to include arts, music, theatre and film education in their school curricula, as these are key factors in deepening knowledge of cultural heritage, artistic practice and creativity.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the need to support innovative and research-oriented european cultural and creative industries, which can ensure the preservation of linguistic and cultural diversity, while offering innovative and high-quality services. this includes, for example, various works of art, audiovisual products (films, television programmes, video games), music, cultural heritage, festivals, etc. the creative and cultural industries contribute to the preservation and transmission of european knowledge and values, while also contributing to the creation of jobs, investment and competitiveness. the future of the creative and cultural industries is therefore particularly important. creative industries are particularly strong in the european r&d market. in many cases, low barriers to entry allow people to enter the frontier of a given area who would otherwise be unable to invest in more capital-intensive investments. this feature also opens up the possibility for a wider range of people to participate in european innovation. creativity is rooted in all forms of culture and art and should be an integral part of education. it is therefore particularly important to remind member states to include arts, music, theatre and film education in their school curricula, as these are key factors in deepening knowledge of cultural heritage, artistic practice and creativity.
in writing. ‒ the draft joint resolution of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on culture and education concludes that the cultural and creative industries are key drivers of growth in europe's reindustrialisation and, due to their strategic location, have a knock-on effect on innovation in other industrial sectors such as tourism, retail and digital technologies. on this basis, she believes that the eu can play a leading role in promoting the important positive impact of the creative industries across europe, and thus support policies that promote europe's most unique asset: its culture. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the need to support innovative and research-oriented european cultural and creative industries, which can ensure the preservation of linguistic and cultural diversity, while offering innovative and high-quality services. this includes, for example, various works of art, audiovisual products (films, television programmes, video games), music, cultural heritage, festivals, etc. the creative and cultural industries contribute to the preservation and transmission of european knowledge and values, while also contributing to the creation of jobs, investment and competitiveness. the future of the creative and cultural industries is therefore particularly important. creative industries are particularly strong in the european r&d market. in many cases, low barriers to entry allow people to enter the frontier of a given area who would otherwise be unable to invest in more capital-intensive investments. this feature also opens up the possibility for a wider range of people to participate in european innovation. creativity is rooted in all forms of culture and art and should be an integral part of education. it is therefore particularly important to remind member states to include arts, music, theatre and film education in their school curricula, as these are key factors in deepening knowledge of cultural heritage, artistic practice and creativity.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the need to support innovative and research-oriented european cultural and creative industries, which can ensure the preservation of linguistic and cultural diversity, while offering innovative and high-quality services. this includes, for example, various works of art, audiovisual products (films, television programmes, video games), music, cultural heritage, festivals, etc. the creative and cultural industries contribute to the preservation and transmission of european knowledge and values, while also contributing to the creation of jobs, investment and competitiveness. the future of the creative and cultural industries is therefore particularly important. creative industries are particularly strong in the european r&d market. in many cases, low barriers to entry allow people to enter the frontier of a given area who would otherwise be unable to invest in more capital-intensive investments. this feature also opens up the possibility for a wider range of people to participate in european innovation. creativity is rooted in all forms of culture and art and should be an integral part of education. it is therefore particularly important to remind member states to include arts, music, theatre and film education in their school curricula, as these are key factors in deepening knowledge of cultural heritage, artistic practice and creativity.
in writing. ‒ culture, art and creativity: the world is in fact linking this image and these values to europe. in the 21st century europe, in the transition to the digital economy, smes are increasingly replacing traditional manufacturing processes and traditional value chains. producing quality content, the ability to innovate, to tell a story, to imagine and to evoke emotion has become our most valuable commodity today. we must do all this, we must support, we must encourage and we must protect. i supported the document.
in writing. ‒ the constitutions and legal systems of the union and its member states, and of all the countries of the eastern partnership, launched in 2009 at the initiative of azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, the republic of moldova, armenia and ukraine, enshrine women's rights and gender equality. however, social discrimination is significant and gender stereotypes not only hinder women's greater participation in the labour market and political life, but also maintain the social acceptance of gender-based and unreported violence against the police. women are markedly excluded from positions of power, both in the executive and parliamentary branches, mainly due to discriminatory practices. the gender pay gap is particularly large, ranging from 24% to 50%, and the horizontal and vertical segregation of the labour market is critical. women therefore tend to accept low-paid or unreported jobs, especially in rural areas. the report aims to highlight the obstacles to women's social inclusion and how greater gender equality would help achieve the objectives of the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy. it also lists examples of good practice, relevant and successful projects promoting women's rights and gender equality in the eastern partnership countries. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. as the report points out, one of the main objectives of the european union's foreign and neighbourhood policy is to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity for all. and women do play a fundamental role in this. i am therefore pleased that the gender dimension will be included in the regular reports on developments in the neighbourhood. i also find it appropriate that the rapporteur notes that women's rights and gender equality are also enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of all the eastern partnership countries, although social discrimination and gender stereotypes are still a serious problem. i think it is important to note that the member states of the european union are facing similar problems, such as violence against women, low participation of women in decision-making processes and gender pay gaps, and that the eu member states must make serious efforts to improve the situation.
in writing. ‒ stabilising its neighbourhood is a key objective of the european union's foreign policy and the european neighbourhood policy in order to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity for all. women play a fundamental role in this. i voted in favor of the motion.
mr president, a six-month presidency cannot be expected to solve the union's major problems, but it can be expected to move forward in the right direction. the most important issue for the union is perhaps the migration situation, and the member states are most divided on the issue of mandatory quotas. the slovak government has a clear view on this. in september, he declared that the mandatory refugee quota was dead. well, if that's true, then you're walking among us as a zombie, a walking dead, because at the eu summit you said that the existing resettlement programs should be accelerated, and this week you're talking about how to enforce the principle of responsibility and solidarity. i hope that those who sent an invitation as prime minister to come here, not to refugees, but to people migrating in the hope of a better life, will also be held accountable, and solidarity will not only mean the absurd €250,000 that should be paid for a non-admitted migrant, but also, in the case of hungary, the €500 million that it has spent on protecting the schengen borders.
mr president, in its global strategy the eu has committed to act globally to address the root causes of conflict and poverty, and to promote human rights. in line with this commitment, this annual report reiterates that human rights remain a priority in our external policies, but they are increasingly under threat worldwide. at the hands of the authoritarian regimes, the space for civil society is shrinking, and violence against defenders is increasing. individuals are persecuted for their faith, the christians still being the most harassed religious community globally, in places like iraq, syria and pakistan. in china, in a climate of fear, prominent rights defenders are harassed, tortured and go missing. uyghur scholar, ilham tohti, remains in jail. tibetans live in constant fear for their existence. prominent lawyers in china, such as jiang tianyong, have gone missing in an ongoing widespread detention. considering the current migration crisis in europe, it is worth mentioning that the report distinguishes between migrants and refugees, in accordance with adequate legal procedures. our report echoes our strong commitment to european values and universal human rights.
mr president, i am pleased to note that the report devotes an entire chapter to the situation of people with disabilities. on my initiative, the report includes a thorough examination of the effectiveness of projects for people with disabilities and the involvement of ngos representing people with disabilities in the implementation of projects, in line with the principle of 'nothing about us without us'. i believe that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities should be followed and more projects should be set up to support disabled people in their own communities, to support the social integration of disabled people. it's not about talking, it's about acting. we don't need to export democracy, we need to strengthen local communities. local ngos need to be involved, because they know exactly what is needed locally and they can help ensure that the aid actually reaches the people for whom it is intended.
mr president, i would like to illustrate this very important point with a concrete example. i have been in iraq in the past few days, in the mosul area, and i know how committed mrs mogherini is to this area and to the normalisation of the situation. so i'd like to say three sentences about the human rights situation. nothing else can be done until we guarantee security from a human rights perspective. there's nothing worth talking about until we can get people who are opposites to sit down at the table. hundreds of thousands of refugees want to return home, but there is no hope yet. there are three things that europe can be helped with: water, electricity, education. it's as simple as that, but it's a whole different thing to do. there is one thing that needs to be taken into account, and i would like to draw your attention to it. millions of people are going to leave iraq if we don't help. we help or they come.
in writing. the european union must not give up its ambition to remain a flag-bearer and a valid example of the application of human rights and democracy in the world. this requires, more than ever, coherence and credibility in the union's external and internal policies in the face of the latest global challenges, notably the refugee crisis. the credibility of our migration policy in particular, which has recently been undermined from within by the inhuman, degrading and discriminatory treatment of refugees by some eu governments. the report by mr weidenholzer, which is very thorough and important, also confronts us with dramatic facts in this respect, but avoids naming specific member states. as a hungarian politician and a democrat, i cannot ignore this, because the systematic violation of the rights of refugees is unfortunately being carried out by the orbán government, which today provides the most shameful example in europe. the government that on human rights day is relocating refugees still stranded in the country to more humiliating conditions than ever before, to a tented camp unsuitable for wintering. the regime whose new anti-terrorism law allows a court to declare a syrian refugee a terrorist and sentence him to ten years (!) in prison for using loudspeakers and throwing stones to protest against a wall and barbed wire on the hungarian border, all without causing any personal injury. this is part of the overall picture of human rights in europe today and i believe it represents a serious internal challenge for the eu as a community of democratic values.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this is one of the yearly occasions when we should be able to talk about our global vision and our responses at the global scale. nevertheless, i’m going to concentrate on a few more specific issues since this is not the first, and probably won’t be the last document dealing with our global strategy and its implementation. first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for the exemplary work which as usual he put into the report, both in the draft and in the negotiations. we are glad to be able to be part of many of the compromises. the report rightly highlights the possibility and the wish and even, to some degree, the fact that europe could be a diplomatic superpower. it is something that we should all strive for, and we agree that this is the goal, but there are quite a few steps along the way until we fully reach that potential. just to mention one single example: the eu has more diplomatic representations around the globe than any of the member states, but nevertheless so far we have been unable to pool even our consular functions. so the blocks that come are usually not from the other institutions, not from the european parliament and not from the council, but from the member states. a diplomatic superpower should not speak with many different voices. we can only become a diplomatic superpower if we remain committed to an integrated and common foreign policy. for that we need to convince our member states as well. secondly, i would like to mention the claims that we need significant defence capability development. we agree that we need to have power in order to be able to keep and foster peace around the world. that also requires power, we fully agree with that. we also agree that we are not there yet. we need further developments in this field. however, what we’re slightly worried about is the militarisation of foreign policy: that is something which needs to be avoided, and it needs to be avoided because a military policy cannot dictate the needs of diplomacy. last but not least, as the vice president has already mentioned, the development policy needs to be an integrated one, fully agreed between all the institutions. this is something that requires primacy to be given to development and not to security.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, you mentioned the need for a genuine common european security and foreign policy, which is not a new need. however, do you see a new challenge in the fact that the elected us president and the current russian president seem to be finding each other at the expense of europe? do you see a new challenge in this?
madam president, madam high representative, allow me first of all to congratulate my colleague, mr brok, on his report. today, the union faces a wide range of challenges in the field of foreign and security policy. these include conflicts in the middle east, civil wars and population growth on the african continent, but also terrorism, cybersecurity, human trafficking, or radicalization. these are all problems that directly affect the union, the security of our citizens. protecting our external borders is essential in this context. we need to strengthen our common defence policy, cooperation and capabilities. it is also to protect the union effectively from external challenges, at our external borders. but that alone is not enough if we do not try to remedy the underlying causes that put such pressure on our boundaries. with the right development policy and well-targeted aid, we can promote peace and stability. this is how we can prevent mass migration, or instability and radicalization. we all know, we all feel more and more, that there is no freedom without security. but we can only guarantee security within the union if we have a sufficiently strong and determined foreign and security policy.
madam president, i congratulate myself on the preparation of this report and i must especially thank mr nicola caputo, who has done an unprecedented job of putting together the socialist proposals that are largely reflected in this document. and not only our political group, but also many committees have made very important and valuable contributions. it's clear that farmers are going crazy over extreme price fluctuations, perhaps more afraid of it than they are of the many challenges of weather. and i think that if this parliament can contribute with this report to enabling them to live in a more stable price environment, we have already done a great deal towards food security and food security, which is, by the way, a not forgotten objective of the common agricultural policy. i feel that without the instruments listed here or listed here, the cap would remain extremely fragile, and i would also suggest that these measures be called agricultural stabilisers.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you mentioned that we should suspend negotiations with turkey. i think that's a lot of people's opinion. at the same time, i ask you whether you think this is sufficient, since other countries - i am thinking here of russia, for example - have been sanctioned by the european union for much smaller problems, and i think that turkey would also have room for manoeuvre in this matter, i am thinking here of the customs union. thank you very much.
madam president, mr. commissioner, members of the council. a mass of ideas, plans, speeches, decisions... we're now in for another council meeting with another series of speeches. i can only hope that this council meeting will be fruitful, more fruitful than it has been. i would like to congratulate the slovak presidency, however, for the excellent work it has done this semester in trying to deal properly with all the issues that are our priorities. we are talking about migration. two years after this huge migration pressure started. two years after some of the commission officials were still talking about there being no migration pressure. now we have an agreement that is full of doubt. we have an agreement that is actually an outsourcing of a job. we've left the problem to ourselves while we try to find the solution outside. and that agreement is very difficult to maintain. he's got a lot on his mind. but its failure to comply could lead to the greek situation, the greek refugee situation, becoming even more acute, this situation will get worse. these people can't be sent back to turkey, the asylum agencies say turkey is not safe. we want to leave the solution to a country that is not safe. this is the ... (the president interrupted the member)
in writing. the european council meeting on 15 and 16 december will have on its agenda a number of urgent issues that need to be resolved as soon as possible. one such issue is immigration, which is becoming more urgent every day, as tens of thousands of immigrants arrive in europe each week in search of a better life. it is irresponsible to say that we are helping all immigrants when unemployment is high among eu citizens and a significant number of people are struggling to make ends meet. the main causes of migration must be prevented, and this requires a strengthening of partnerships with third countries, in particular african states. the basic needs of the people must be met and they must be offered a perspective on the future in their homeland. at the same time, it is crucial to strengthen the union's external borders, as demonstrated by the deficiencies in controls revealed in the wake of the tragic terrorist acts of recent months. eu citizens have a right to expect security, and this requires strengthening the fight against illegal immigration and terrorism. in dealing with the migration crisis, the union must not lose sight of the protection of its own citizens and the development of its own member states. cohesion and agricultural resources shall not be reduced when determining the resources to be used to deal with the migration crisis.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the eu investment fund, launched in 2014 and known as the juncker plan, has proved a huge success across much of europe. billions of euros have been mobilised in most member states for investment projects that have led to safer and more efficient energy supplies, faster internet, fewer bottlenecks and better lives for european citizens. the juncker plan gave the most money to those countries that were able to convince the european investment bank, which allocated the funds, of their country's competitiveness. member states competed for investment, but unfortunately not all member states were able to come up with competitive ideas worth eu billions. for example, in hungary and cyprus, little has been invested under the scheme. while only €17 million was mobilised in hungary, €160 billion was mobilised in the other 27 member states for risky projects with an eu guarantee. unfortunately, this shows where hungary stands in the eu nations' competitiveness rankings. if governments make an effort, if they make good proposals, the juncker plan will lead to projects that improve the lives of their citizens. of course, this requires that national governments represent the interests of their own citizens and not be concerned with themselves.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015. it shall apply from 26 june 2017, with the exception of the part concerning the system for the interconnection of national insolvency registers, which shall apply from 26 june 2019. the annexes to the regulation contain the insolvency proceedings (annex a) and experts (annex b) relating to its application. in december 2015, poland informed the commission that it had implemented a major reform of its national restructuring law, which entered into force on 1 january 2016, and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has examined whether poland's request complies with the requirements of that regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to align the scope of the revised regulation to the current polish legal framework until it applies. the proposal is technical in nature and does not contain any substantive amendments. the aim and content of the proposal are satisfactory, but three further technical amendments are necessary. the first two amendments reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland on the commission proposal under protocol 21 on the position of the united kingdom and ireland in respect of the area of freedom, security and justice. the third amendment aims to align the date of application of the amending regulation with regulation (eu) 2015/848. in view of the above, i shall vote in favour of the amendment to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015. it shall apply from 26 june 2017, with the exception of the part concerning the system for the interconnection of national insolvency registers, which shall apply from 26 june 2019. the annexes to the regulation contain the insolvency proceedings (annex a) and experts (annex b) relating to its application. in december 2015, poland informed the commission that it had implemented a major reform of its national restructuring law, which entered into force on 1 january 2016, and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has examined whether poland's request complies with the requirements of that regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to align the scope of the revised regulation to the current polish legal framework until it applies. the proposal is technical in nature and does not contain any substantive amendments. the aim and content of the proposal are satisfactory, but three further technical amendments are necessary. the first two amendments reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland on the commission proposal under protocol 21 on the position of the united kingdom and ireland in respect of the area of freedom, security and justice. the third amendment aims to align the date of application of the amending regulation with regulation (eu) 2015/848. in view of the above, i shall vote in favour of the amendment to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015. it shall apply from 26 june 2017, with the exception of the part concerning the system for the interconnection of national insolvency registers, which shall apply from 26 june 2019. the annexes to the regulation contain the insolvency proceedings (annex a) and experts (annex b) relating to its application. in december 2015, poland informed the commission that it had implemented a major reform of its national restructuring law, which entered into force on 1 january 2016, and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has examined whether poland's request complies with the requirements of that regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to align the scope of the revised regulation to the current polish legal framework until it applies. the proposal is technical in nature and does not contain any substantive amendments. the aim and content of the proposal are satisfactory, but three further technical amendments are necessary. the first two amendments reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland on the commission proposal under protocol 21 on the position of the united kingdom and ireland in respect of the area of freedom, security and justice. the third amendment aims to align the date of application of the amending regulation with regulation (eu) 2015/848. in view of the above, i shall vote in favour of the amendment to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015. the annexes to the regulation contain the insolvency proceedings and the insolvency practitioners for the application of the regulation. in december 2015, poland significantly revised its restructuring legislation and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission examined whether the request submitted by poland complied with the requirements of that regulation and submitted a proposal to the european parliament and to the council to amend the two annexes accordingly. in its report, the committee on legal affairs notes that the commission's proposal is purely technical and does not contain any substantive amendment to the regulation, and therefore proposes that it be adopted by parliament at first reading with three amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015. it shall apply from 26 june 2017, with the exception of the part concerning the system for the interconnection of national insolvency registers, which shall apply from 26 june 2019. the annexes to the regulation contain the insolvency proceedings (annex a) and experts (annex b) relating to its application. in december 2015, poland informed the commission that it had implemented a major reform of its national restructuring law, which entered into force on 1 january 2016, and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has examined whether poland's request complies with the requirements of that regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to align the scope of the revised regulation to the current polish legal framework until it applies. the proposal is technical in nature and does not contain any substantive amendments. the aim and content of the proposal are satisfactory, but three further technical amendments are necessary. the first two amendments reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland on the commission proposal under protocol 21 on the position of the united kingdom and ireland in respect of the area of freedom, security and justice. the third amendment aims to align the date of application of the amending regulation with regulation (eu) 2015/848. in view of the above, i shall vote in favour of the amendment to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report adopting the amendment to the insolvency procedure regulation. having examined the amendment request submitted by poland in view of the significant reform of its national restructuring law, the commission confirmed that it is purely technical in nature and does not contain a substantive change to the regulation. in addition, the report supplements the proposal with two amendments, also of a technical nature, which also do not impede the full and proper application of the regulation and are therefore all eligible.
in writing. ‒ regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings shall apply from 26 june 2017, with the exception of the part on the system for the interconnection of national insolvency registers, which shall apply from 26 june 2019. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european union should make full use of the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to ensure that the uzbek authorities commit to strengthening the rule of law and democratic reforms. significant progress has been made in this direction with the adoption of legislation prohibiting child labour, but further government action is needed as more indirect and more sophisticated forms of forced labour continue to exist. it is essential to release political prisoners and to put an end to detentions and convictions that violate human rights. the european union will continue to monitor the measures and, if necessary, invite the european commission and the council to implement articles 2 and 95 of the agreement. in accordance with the foregoing, i am voting in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the referral is to approve the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, on the extension of the provisions of the agreement to bilateral textile trade. this would provide for the reciprocal granting of the most favoured nation status; trade without quantitative restrictions; the principle of free transit; trade at market prices. the submission shall also include a safeguard clause and any prohibition or restriction on import, export or transit justified on grounds of public morality, public policy or public security. in the current state of cooperation, it is appropriate for the european parliament to give its consent to the signing of the protocol on the textile sector, but in the event of the suspension of the implementation of the commitments by the uzbek authorities, the parliament maintains the entry into force of articles 2 and 95 of the partnership agreement. in the light of the above, i have voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the referral is to approve the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, on the extension of the provisions of the agreement to bilateral textile trade. this would provide for the reciprocal granting of the most favoured nation status; trade without quantitative restrictions; the principle of free transit; trade at market prices. the submission shall also include a safeguard clause and any prohibition or restriction on import, export or transit justified on grounds of public morality, public policy or public security. in the current state of cooperation, it is appropriate for the european parliament to give its consent to the signing of the protocol on the textile sector, but in the event of the suspension of the implementation of the commitments by the uzbek authorities, the parliament maintains the entry into force of articles 2 and 95 of the partnership agreement. in the light of the above, i have voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. uzbekistan is a key central asian state with a continuously developing and significant agricultural and manufacturing industry. the convention is essentially a renewal of an earlier document, which is now expiring and which, as experience has shown, has served the interests of both the union and uzbekistan well. it is particularly important today to help maintain stability in the region and to provide europe with a certain economic counterbalance in a remote area. i should like to point out that the new president has just been inaugurated following an electoral procedure which, in the unanimous opinion of many foreign observers, has been carried out without fault.
in writing. ‒ the council has drawn up a draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, on the extension of the provisions of the agreement to bilateral textile trade. for the adoption of the decision, the council shall obtain the consent of parliament. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the european union should make full use of the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to ensure that the uzbek authorities commit to strengthening the rule of law and democratic reforms. significant progress has been made in this direction with the adoption of legislation prohibiting child labour, but further government action is needed as more indirect and more sophisticated forms of forced labour continue to exist. it is essential to release political prisoners and to put an end to detentions and convictions that violate human rights. the european union will continue to monitor the measures and, if necessary, invite the european commission and the council to implement articles 2 and 95 of the agreement. in accordance with the foregoing, i am voting in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is requested to approve the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, on the extension of the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement to bilateral textile trade. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european union should make full use of the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to ensure that the uzbek authorities commit to strengthening the rule of law and democratic reforms. significant progress has been made in this direction with the adoption of legislation prohibiting child labour, but further government action is needed as more indirect and more sophisticated forms of forced labour continue to exist. it is essential to release political prisoners and to put an end to detentions and convictions that violate human rights. the european union will continue to monitor the measures and, if necessary, invite the european commission and the council to implement articles 2 and 95 of the agreement. in accordance with the foregoing, i am voting in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european union should make full use of the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to ensure that the uzbek authorities commit to strengthening the rule of law and democratic reforms. significant progress has been made in this direction with the adoption of legislation prohibiting child labour, but further government action is needed as more indirect and more sophisticated forms of forced labour continue to exist. it is essential to release political prisoners and to put an end to detentions and convictions that violate human rights. the european union will continue to monitor the measures and, if necessary, invite the european commission and the council to implement articles 2 and 95 of the agreement. in accordance with the foregoing, i am voting in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european union should make full use of the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to ensure that the uzbek authorities commit to strengthening the rule of law and democratic reforms. significant progress has been made in this direction with the adoption of legislation prohibiting child labour, but further government action is needed as more indirect and more sophisticated forms of forced labour continue to exist. it is essential to release political prisoners and to put an end to detentions and convictions that violate human rights. the european union will continue to monitor the measures and, if necessary, invite the european commission and the council to implement articles 2 and 95 of the agreement. in accordance with the foregoing, i am voting in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the committee on international trade has attached a motion for a resolution to the proposal referred to in paragraph 2. the partnership and cooperation agreement between uzbekistan and the eu of 1999 does not cover bilateral textile trade. the contribution to the extension was linked by the european parliament in its report adopted in december 2011 to the improvement of the situation in uzbekistan in the field of child and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest. the ilo in its 2015 report on the control of cotton harvesting in uzbekistan found that child labour in cotton harvesting has been virtually eliminated, but it could not make a similar statement on forced labour. the draft resolution of the committee on international trade proposes to welcome the results achieved and to recognise the measures taken by the government of uzbekistan to eliminate forced labour, and expresses the view that parliament should give its consent to the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to bilateral textile trade in recognition of the efforts made by the government of uzbekistan in this field. it also makes recommendations and expectations to the uzbek authorities with a view to further normalising the situation and calls on the eu bodies to monitor the process and to assist in structural reforms in uzbekistan. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ in december 2011, the european parliament decided to postpone its decision to agree to the eu-uzbekistan textiles protocol and to adopt an interim report to investigate allegations of child and forced labour on cotton plantations in uzbekistan. in that interim report, parliament stated that it would only give its consent if the uzbek authorities allowed the ilo observers to carry out a thorough and unhindered inspection, confirming that concrete and substantial reforms had been carried out with significant results, resulting in the effective abolition of forced labour and child labour practices at national, provincial and local levels. i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and certain provisions thereof have been applied, in accordance with article 330 of the agreement, between the european union and peru as from 1 march 2013 and between the european union and colombia as from 1 august 2013. article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility for additional member states of the andean community to accede to the agreement. the european union and ecuador concluded accession negotiations on 17 july 2014. on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted its resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement (2015/2656 ((rsp)) urging the government of ecuador to take similar measures based on the action plans submitted by colombia and peru. following the adoption of the resolution, the rapporteur visited ecuador in march 2016. in view of the above, the granting of consent by parliament is justified, but it is important to note that the monitoring and evaluation of existing agreements is a key priority of the common commercial policy. the commission is therefore required to keep parliament informed of the implementation and monitoring of this agreement. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and certain provisions thereof have been applied, in accordance with article 330 of the agreement, between the european union and peru as from 1 march 2013 and between the european union and colombia as from 1 august 2013. article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility for additional member states of the andean community to accede to the agreement. the european union and ecuador concluded accession negotiations on 17 july 2014. on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted its resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement (2015/2656 ((rsp)) urging the government of ecuador to take similar measures based on the action plans submitted by colombia and peru. following the adoption of the resolution, the rapporteur visited ecuador in march 2016. in view of the above, the granting of consent by parliament is justified, but it is important to note that the monitoring and evaluation of existing agreements is a key priority of the common commercial policy. the commission is therefore required to keep parliament informed of the implementation and monitoring of this agreement. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and certain provisions thereof have been applied, in accordance with article 330 of the agreement, between the european union and peru as from 1 march 2013 and between the european union and colombia as from 1 august 2013. article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility for additional member states of the andean community to accede to the agreement. the european union and ecuador concluded accession negotiations on 17 july 2014. on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted its resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement (2015/2656 ((rsp)) urging the government of ecuador to take similar measures based on the action plans submitted by colombia and peru. following the adoption of the resolution, the rapporteur visited ecuador in march 2016. in view of the above, the granting of consent by parliament is justified, but it is important to note that the monitoring and evaluation of existing agreements is a key priority of the common commercial policy. the commission is therefore required to keep parliament informed of the implementation and monitoring of this agreement. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. many of the tropical fruits, spices and vegetables in european shops come from central american countries, so the importance of economic links cannot be underestimated. the extension of the trade agreement with colombia and peru, which was concluded earlier, to ecuador is clearly to be supported. here too, europe's balancing effect is felt, which is undoubtedly a positive for all remote regions.
in writing. ‒ article 329 of the trade agreement of 11 december 2012 between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, provides for the possibility for additional member states of the andean community to accede to the agreement. the european union and ecuador concluded accession negotiations on 17 july 2014. the council has drawn up a draft decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol to take account of the accession of ecuador, but it needs the consent of the parliament to adopt the decision. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and certain provisions thereof have been applied, in accordance with article 330 of the agreement, between the european union and peru as from 1 march 2013 and between the european union and colombia as from 1 august 2013. article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility for additional member states of the andean community to accede to the agreement. the european union and ecuador concluded accession negotiations on 17 july 2014. on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted its resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement (2015/2656 ((rsp)) urging the government of ecuador to take similar measures based on the action plans submitted by colombia and peru. following the adoption of the resolution, the rapporteur visited ecuador in march 2016. in view of the above, the granting of consent by parliament is justified, but it is important to note that the monitoring and evaluation of existing agreements is a key priority of the common commercial policy. the commission is therefore required to keep parliament informed of the implementation and monitoring of this agreement. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament agreeing, on the basis of a proposal from the council, to the signing of a protocol supplementing the existing bilateral trade agreement between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru, which would also include ecuador's accession to the agreement in the framework of andean cooperation. i considered that this would provide an essential support to the ecuadorian economy, which is currently experiencing serious problems as a result of the fall in oil prices, and could contribute to the stability of the country and the region as a whole in the face of political instability. in addition, it is a fact that due to the change in eu regulations, ecuador will lose gsp preferential treatment from the end of 2016, and without this bilateral agreement, the country's trade would be in a difficult situation, while the country's government is still struggling with the economic and financial consequences of the severe earthquake this spring. the agreement also provides for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility for additional member states of the andean community to accede to the agreement. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. legislation on fishing activities is a success story among both eu and un-level regulation. indeed, a look back over a decade has shown that it has been possible to ensure the conservation of marine fish stocks in a sustainable way, while supplying the eu's internal market with sufficient quantities of good quality fish. the report, which is clearly to be supported, will help to maintain a balanced fisheries management in scandinavia in the future.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on mutual access to the skagerrak and kattegat fisheries, which entered into force on 7 august 1967, recognised that fishing rights in this area are traditionally reserved to the fishermen of the three countries concerned. denmark joined the eu in 1973 and sweden in 1995, and the commission became responsible for the management of the agreement in question in respect of these two member states. in the light of recent developments in international fisheries law, in particular the 1982 un convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 un fish stocks agreement, norway considered that the existing agreement was not in conformity with the provisions of the convention on the law of the sea in force and therefore terminated the agreement with effect from 7 august 2012 and entered into formal negotiations with the commission with a view to the development of a new agreement. the new agreement was signed on 15 january 2015. the council has drawn up a draft decision on the ratification of the agreement, which requires the consent of the parliament. in its report, the committee on fisheries proposes that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the committee on fisheries has attached a draft resolution to its report referred to in paragraph 5. the draft proposes to invite the commission and the council to keep parliament fully informed of the implementation and renewal of the agreement. it also suggests that norwegian customs duties on food and fishery products originating in the union should be in line with the agreement on the european economic area and the principles of free trade in this area. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ by accepting the recommendation, i have agreed to the draft agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden in the skagerrak fishing zone. the recommendation describes that the agreement maintains the historical fishing rights of the danish, norwegian and swedish fishermen in this area without prejudice to the rights of the fishermen of other states, while also ensuring that appropriate fisheries management and conservation measures are taken in these waters. i agree that the agreement will facilitate the implementation of a reformed fisheries management system within the union in line with the principles of the new common fisheries policy and the introduction of mandatory measures to maintain stocks above levels that produce maximum sustainable yield. i also agree that the access of any third country to the internal market should be based on reciprocity and that the duties imposed on food products from the union in the case of norway should be in line with the agreement on the european economic area. this should be done without imposing duties on food and fishery products originating in the union which are contrary to the principles of free trade in food, including fishery products.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on reciprocal access to the skagerrak and kattegat fisheries entered into force on 7 august 1967. this agreement, which complements the bilateral fisheries agreement concluded between the european union and norway in 1980, allowed the three states parties to fish outside their own baselines but within a maximum distance of 4 nautical miles in the waters of the skagerrak and the kattegat. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), georgia is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, and more specifically drug-related or economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and crime committed by mobile organised criminal groups. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and georgia shall allow for the necessary exchange of information and provide for the organisation of crime prevention activities and training. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with georgia, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of information with law enforcement agencies of third country partners is of paramount importance for the successful fight against international organised crime. according to the european police office (europol), georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, precisely because it is a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a vital partner in the fight against georgian criminal organisations. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement to be concluded between europol and ukraine would help and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is essentially international in nature. europol clearly needs to deepen its cooperation with georgia, and as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. any cooperation that can enhance the effectiveness of the fight against organised crime, including between europol and georgia, which is likely to contribute to improving the security of eu citizens, should be supported. even if i have my reservations about it and the material doesn't dispel all doubts. a more fundamental concern is the actual treatment of personal data, especially in countries with a somewhat uncertain status. the problem is even greater when large-scale data exchange and investigations are carried out by serious apparatuses to screen out a few criminals, while masses of trained, combat-trained adult terrorists from war zones enter the union and are given protection as poor underage refugees. with a cannon in his sling, while he's dragging you into the tank. palmyra has just been taken by terrorists with the help of a high-powered diversionary infiltrated as a refugee. what about you, europe?
in writing. ‒ the council has drawn up a draft implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and the european police office (europol). it shall consult parliament before adopting its decision. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament approve the council's draft. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep giving its consent to the agreement between europol and the government of georgia on strategic and operational cooperation in law enforcement. the agreement can clearly also contribute to the security of the eu and its member states by strengthening joint action against cross-border crime. i am also aware that it raises questions, since it is concluded on a legal basis which predates the treaty of lisbon, which may be problematic from the point of view of data protection and the reduction of the ep's decision-making role. however, given that several similar agreements have been concluded between europol and third states in recent times, the refusal of parliament's consent could not be accepted in this case either from a political or practical point of view.
in writing. ‒ under the current council decision on europol, the council, after consulting the european parliament, is to authorise the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations. such an agreement may cover the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement shall also include the exchange of personal data. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. spain has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under the reference number egf/2016/004 es/comunidad valenciana automotive. the commission has examined the application and found that it complies with the requirements of the relevant regulation, and i have therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. i support all requests to provide assistance to workers in the eu periphery, including spain, one of the countries most affected by the crisis caused by the eu's economic policies. the rapporteur also wisely draws attention in a timely manner to the alarming figures of the european automotive industry. this is already part of a longer-term trend, during which the union lost almost half of its market share between 2000 and 2015. at the same time, the sector is booming in asia and stagnating in the rest of the world. so the peaceful slumber of those in power is unique to europe.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 21 june 2016, spain submitted to the commission an application to mobilise the fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of bosal s.a., a company operating mainly in the region of valencia, which has made redundancies affecting the majority of the employees concerned by the application, following its bankruptcy and closure. the application concerns 250 redundant workers and is for a total of eur 856 800 from the egf. the services to be provided to redundant workers comprise the following 12 measures: 6 measures are personalised services under article 7 (1) (a) and (c) of the egf regulation, the other 6 measures are benefits and incentives under article 7 (1) (b) of the egf regulation. the personalised services account for more than 75% of the total. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the fund and that the planned measures constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities and has therefore submitted to the parliament and the council a proposal for a financial contribution from the fund of eur 856 800. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i voted in favour of the related motion.
in writing. ‒ this regulation which the commission is now proposing to repeal allowed member states to compensate railway undertakings for payments in respect of obligations which are not borne by undertakings in other modes of transport. as the commission states in its proposal, the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment. i share this view with the commission as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation. i also agree that the current wording of the regulation is discriminatory, since it makes the possibility of compensation available only to the 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation. therefore, it is not possible to maintain the regulation in force. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. at that time, the european parliament supported the repeal of the regulation but asked that the repealing provision not enter into force until two years later. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, interinstitutional negotiations took place under the luxembourg and dutch presidencies of the council. on 19 april 2016, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency.
in writing. ‒ this regulation which the commission is now proposing to repeal allowed member states to compensate railway undertakings for payments in respect of obligations which are not borne by undertakings in other modes of transport. as the commission states in its proposal, the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment. i share this view with the commission as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation. i also agree that the current wording of the regulation is discriminatory, since it makes the possibility of compensation available only to the 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation. therefore, it is not possible to maintain the regulation in force. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. at that time, the european parliament supported the repeal of the regulation but asked that the repealing provision not enter into force until two years later. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, interinstitutional negotiations took place under the luxembourg and dutch presidencies of the council. on 19 april 2016, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency.
in writing. ‒ this regulation which the commission is now proposing to repeal allowed member states to compensate railway undertakings for payments in respect of obligations which are not borne by undertakings in other modes of transport. as the commission states in its proposal, the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment. i share this view with the commission as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation. i also agree that the current wording of the regulation is discriminatory, since it makes the possibility of compensation available only to the 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation. therefore, it is not possible to maintain the regulation in force. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. at that time, the european parliament supported the repeal of the regulation but asked that the repealing provision not enter into force until two years later. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, interinstitutional negotiations took place under the luxembourg and dutch presidencies of the council. on 19 april 2016, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 has the general objective of improving the quality and operational efficiency of rail passenger services. this would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. in order to achieve the general objective, the commission proposes to apply mandatory competitive tendering for public service contracts in order to increase the competitive pressure on domestic railway markets. the objective is to increase the efficiency and improve the quality of rail passenger services. those measures shall be accompanied by provisions ensuring a favourable framework for competitive tendering procedures, including rules on access to rolling stock. the commission proposal is closely linked to the proposed amendments to directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area, which introduce open access rights for railway undertakings and strengthen the provisions governing infrastructure managers with regard to enhancing non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure. following the adoption of parliament's first reading position on 26 february 2014, interinstitutional negotiations were held under the luxembourg and netherlands presidencies of the council (with the aim of reaching an early second reading agreement). following six tripartite consultations, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency on 19 april 2016.
in writing. ‒ this regulation which the commission is now proposing to repeal allowed member states to compensate railway undertakings for payments in respect of obligations which are not borne by undertakings in other modes of transport. as the commission states in its proposal, the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment. i share this view with the commission as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation. i also agree that the current wording of the regulation is discriminatory, since it makes the possibility of compensation available only to the 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation. therefore, it is not possible to maintain the regulation in force. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. at that time, the european parliament supported the repeal of the regulation but asked that the repealing provision not enter into force until two years later. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, interinstitutional negotiations took place under the luxembourg and dutch presidencies of the council. on 19 april 2016, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency.
in writing. ‒ this regulation which the commission is now proposing to repeal allowed member states to compensate railway undertakings for payments in respect of obligations which are not borne by undertakings in other modes of transport. as the commission states in its proposal, the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment. i share this view with the commission as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation. i also agree that the current wording of the regulation is discriminatory, since it makes the possibility of compensation available only to the 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation. therefore, it is not possible to maintain the regulation in force. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. at that time, the european parliament supported the repeal of the regulation but asked that the repealing provision not enter into force until two years later. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, interinstitutional negotiations took place under the luxembourg and dutch presidencies of the council. on 19 april 2016, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to parliament and the council to repeal council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. on 26 february 2014, parliament adopted its position at first reading, supporting the repeal of the regulation but requesting that the repealing provision enter into force only two years later. interinstitutional negotiations were subsequently held, resulting in an agreement between parliament's negotiating team and the council presidency on 19 april 2016. on 17 october 2016, the council adopted its position at first reading in accordance with the agreement.in its report, the committee on transport and tourism proposes that parliament agrees with the council's position at first reading and thereby declares that the legislative act has been adopted in accordance with the council's position. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings the repeal of which is now proposed by the commission allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for payments in respect of obligations which are not borne by undertakings in other modes of transport. these obligations may include, inter alia, special payments for accidents at work which are to be paid by railway undertakings, but which are borne by the state for undertakings in other modes of transport , pensions for railway workers who normally retire earlier from strenuous work, or payment of costs relating to railway crossing facilities. the regulation was adopted before the liberalisation of the railway market. at that time, the regulation was intended to ensure that railway undertakings and undertakings in other modes of transport operate on a level playing field in terms of social costs and externalities. the commission considers that, after a number of railway packages transforming the railway sector, the regulation no longer takes into account the current legal environment. i agree that the current wording of the regulation is discriminatory, since it makes the possibility of compensation available only to the 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings which the commission is now proposing to repeal allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for payments in respect of obligations which are not borne by undertakings in other modes of transport. i was not in favour of the enf proposal, following the s&d's position.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 has the general objective of improving the quality and operational efficiency of rail passenger services. this would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. in order to achieve the general objective, the commission proposes to apply mandatory competitive tendering for public service contracts in order to increase the competitive pressure on domestic railway markets. the objective is to increase the efficiency and improve the quality of rail passenger services. those measures shall be accompanied by provisions ensuring a favourable framework for competitive tendering procedures, including rules on access to rolling stock. the commission proposal is closely linked to the proposed amendments to directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area, which introduce open access rights for railway undertakings and strengthen the provisions governing infrastructure managers with regard to enhancing non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure. following the adoption of parliament's first reading position on 26 february 2014, interinstitutional negotiations were held under the luxembourg and netherlands presidencies of the council (with the aim of reaching an early second reading agreement). following six tripartite consultations, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency on 19 april 2016.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package has been under negotiation for years, with the european parliament having adopted its first reading at the end of the previous parliamentary term in february 2014. in view of the document adopted by the european council which differed significantly from the ep's opinion, interinstitutional negotiations were continued between october 2015 and april 2016 in order to bring the positions closer together. the final agreement with the council was reached on 19 april 2016 in the framework of the trilogues. the package of proposals adopted is a success for users and railway companies and a further step towards the single european railway area. for users, the change means a more dynamic and user-friendly service in the future, as well as a higher quality and more frequent service. the general objective of the proposals is to open up the market for domestic rail passenger services, improve the quality of services and increase operational efficiency, which would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport. from the outset, it was of paramount importance for hungary to maintain the current form of the hungarian state railways and to adopt the current form and functioning of the integrated company győrsopronebenfurti vasút zrt. we have managed to reach an agreement on these issues that is acceptable to us and that avoids unnecessary, costly and lengthy reorganisations. so as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package has been under negotiation for years, with the european parliament having adopted its first reading at the end of the previous parliamentary term in february 2014. in view of the document adopted by the european council which differed significantly from the ep's opinion, interinstitutional negotiations were held between october 2015 and april 2016 in order to bring the positions closer together. the final agreement with the council was reached on 19 april 2016 in the framework of the trilogues. the package of proposals adopted is a success for users and railway companies and a further step towards the creation of the single european railway area. for users, the change means a more dynamic and user-friendly service in the future, as well as a higher quality and more frequent service. the general objective of the proposals is to open up the market for domestic rail passenger services, improve the quality of services and increase operational efficiency, which would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport. from the outset, it was of paramount importance for hungary to maintain the current form of the hungarian state railways and to adopt the current form and functioning of the integrated company győr-sopron-ebenfurti vasút zrt. we have managed to reach an agreement on these issues that is acceptable to us and that avoids unnecessary, costly and lengthy reorganisations. so as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 has the general objective of improving the quality and operational efficiency of rail passenger services. this would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. in order to achieve the general objective, the commission proposes to apply mandatory competitive tendering for public service contracts in order to increase the competitive pressure on domestic railway markets. the objective is to increase the efficiency and improve the quality of rail passenger services. those measures shall be accompanied by provisions ensuring a favourable framework for competitive tendering procedures, including rules on access to rolling stock. the commission proposal is closely linked to the proposed amendments to directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area, which introduce open access rights for railway undertakings and strengthen the provisions governing infrastructure managers with regard to enhancing non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure. following the adoption of parliament's first reading position on 26 february 2014, interinstitutional negotiations were held under the luxembourg and netherlands presidencies of the council (with the aim of reaching an early second reading agreement). following six tripartite consultations, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency on 19 april 2016.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 has the general objective of improving the quality and operational efficiency of rail passenger services. this would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. in order to achieve the general objective, the commission proposes to apply mandatory competitive tendering for public service contracts in order to increase the competitive pressure on domestic railway markets. the objective is to increase the efficiency and improve the quality of rail passenger services. those measures shall be accompanied by provisions ensuring a favourable framework for competitive tendering procedures, including rules on access to rolling stock. the commission proposal is closely linked to the proposed amendments to directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area, which introduce open access rights for railway undertakings and strengthen the provisions governing infrastructure managers with regard to enhancing non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure. following the adoption of parliament's first reading position on 26 february 2014, interinstitutional negotiations were held under the luxembourg and netherlands presidencies of the council (with the aim of reaching an early second reading agreement). following six tripartite consultations, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency on 19 april 2016.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 has the general objective of improving the quality and operational efficiency of rail passenger services. this would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. in order to achieve the general objective, the commission proposes to apply mandatory competitive tendering for public service contracts in order to increase the competitive pressure on domestic railway markets. the objective is to increase the efficiency and improve the quality of rail passenger services. those measures shall be accompanied by provisions ensuring a favourable framework for competitive tendering procedures, including rules on access to rolling stock. the commission proposal is closely linked to the proposed amendments to directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area, which introduce open access rights for railway undertakings and strengthen the provisions governing infrastructure managers with regard to enhancing non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure. following the adoption of parliament's first reading position on 26 february 2014, interinstitutional negotiations were held under the luxembourg and netherlands presidencies of the council (with the aim of reaching an early second reading agreement). following six tripartite consultations, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency on 19 april 2016.
in writing. the parliament has already given a decision on the first reading of the regulation on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail, which is otherwise somewhat controversial. to put it mildly, there is mixed experience with market liberalisation, which is essentially about large, often state-owned, companies in the developed eu countries gaining access to budget support from the less developed countries. the vote on the substance is no longer on the substance as a whole, but on the amendments, since the substance has unfortunately been adopted by parliament. the amendments to the draft budget are those which deal mainly with workers' rights and are therefore eligible for support.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council the adoption of a directive amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as regards the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail. the aim was to improve the quality and operational efficiency of rail passenger services, and the commission proposed mandatory tendering of public service contracts to increase the competitive pressure on domestic rail markets. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. the lithuanian parliament, the luxembourg chamber of deputies, the senate and the chamber of deputies of the netherlands, the austrian federal council and the swedish parliament also submitted reasoned opinions to the effect that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. interinstitutional negotiations were subsequently held, resulting in an agreement between parliament's negotiating team and the council presidency on 19 april 2016. the council adopted its position at first reading on 17 october 2016, in accordance with the agreement. in its report, the committee on transport and tourism proposes that parliament agree with the council's position at first reading and thereby declare that the act will be adopted in accordance with the council's position. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has amended regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 to improve the quality and operational efficiency of rail passenger services. as one element of this, the commission proposes the mandatory competitive tendering of public service contracts. in addition, the competent authorities would be required to clearly define the rules on public service obligations applicable to public passenger transport services and their scope, for example by allowing the competent authorities to combine cost-covering services with non-cost-covering services. this is essentially the compensation of the net financial effects of the operation of the public service obligations in a cost-effective manner. the draft also includes social aspects, such as the obligation for public service providers to comply with the obligations laid down in applicable legislation and collective agreements in the field of social and labour law. however, i believe that this second phase of the proposal has been watered down too much, because the liberalisation of the railway market only makes sense if it is combined with open competition and social and labour protection for workers. they were not explicitly mentioned in the present proposal due to the efforts of the people's party and i did not consider this acceptable in this form.
in writing. ‒ in order to achieve the overall objective, the commission proposes to apply mandatory tendering for public service contracts in order to increase the competitive pressure on domestic railway markets. the objective is to increase the efficiency and improve the quality of rail passenger services. those measures shall be accompanied by provisions ensuring a favourable framework for competitive tendering procedures, including rules on access to rolling stock. i was very much in favour of the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ this regulation which the commission is now proposing to repeal allowed member states to compensate railway undertakings for payments in respect of obligations which are not borne by undertakings in other modes of transport. as the commission states in its proposal, the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment. i share this view with the commission as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation. i also agree that the current wording of the regulation is discriminatory, since it makes the possibility of compensation available only to the 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation. therefore, it is not possible to maintain the regulation in force. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. at that time, the european parliament supported the repeal of the regulation but asked that the repealing provision not enter into force until two years later. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, interinstitutional negotiations took place under the luxembourg and dutch presidencies of the council. on 19 april 2016, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 has the general objective of improving the quality and operational efficiency of rail passenger services. this would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. in order to achieve the general objective, the commission proposes to apply mandatory competitive tendering for public service contracts in order to increase the competitive pressure on domestic railway markets. the objective is to increase the efficiency and improve the quality of rail passenger services. those measures shall be accompanied by provisions ensuring a favourable framework for competitive tendering procedures, including rules on access to rolling stock. the commission proposal is closely linked to the proposed amendments to directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area, which introduce open access rights for railway undertakings and strengthen the provisions governing infrastructure managers with regard to enhancing non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure. following the adoption of parliament's first reading position on 26 february 2014, interinstitutional negotiations were held under the luxembourg and netherlands presidencies of the council (with the aim of reaching an early second reading agreement). following six tripartite consultations, parliament's negotiating team reached an agreement with the council presidency on 19 april 2016.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package has been under negotiation for years, with the european parliament having adopted its first reading at the end of the previous parliamentary term in february 2014. in view of the document adopted by the european council which differed significantly from the ep's opinion, interinstitutional negotiations were held between october 2015 and april 2016 in order to bring the positions closer together. the final agreement with the council was reached on 19 april 2016 in the framework of the trilogues. the package of proposals adopted is a success for users and railway companies and a further step towards the creation of the single european railway area. for users, the change means a more dynamic and user-friendly service in the future, as well as a higher quality and more frequent service. the general objective of the proposals is to open up the market for domestic rail passenger services, improve the quality of services and increase operational efficiency, which would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport. from the outset, it was of paramount importance for hungary to maintain the current form of the hungarian state railways and to adopt the current form and functioning of the integrated company győr-sopron-ebenfurti vasút zrt. we have managed to reach an agreement on these issues that is acceptable to us and that avoids unnecessary, costly and lengthy reorganisations. so as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package has been under negotiation for years, with the european parliament having adopted its first reading at the end of the previous parliamentary term in february 2014. in view of the document adopted by the european council which differed significantly from the ep's opinion, interinstitutional negotiations were continued between october 2015 and april 2016 in order to bring the positions closer together. the final agreement with the council was reached on 19 april 2016 in the framework of the trilogues. the package of proposals adopted is a success for users and railway companies and a further step towards the single european railway area. for users, the change means a more dynamic and user-friendly service in the future, as well as a higher quality and more frequent service. the general objective of the proposals is to open up the market for domestic rail passenger services, improve the quality of services and increase operational efficiency, which would improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport. from the outset, it was of paramount importance for hungary to maintain the current form of the hungarian state railways and to adopt the current form and functioning of the integrated company győr-sopron-ebenfurti vasút zrt. we have managed to reach an agreement on these issues that is acceptable to us and that avoids unnecessary, costly and lengthy reorganisations. so as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council the adoption of a directive amending directive 2012/34/eu as regards the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail and the management of rail infrastructure. the proposal aims to open up the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail in order to increase the competitive pressure on domestic rail markets and to increase the volume and quality of passenger transport services, and to strengthen the governance of infrastructure managers to ensure equal access to infrastructure. parliament adopted its position at first reading on 26 february 2014. at the same time, the french senate, the lithuanian parliament, the luxembourg house of representatives, the dutch house of lords, the dutch house of commons and the swedish parliament submitted reasoned opinions to the effect that the draft legislative act was incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. interinstitutional negotiations were subsequently held, resulting in an agreement between parliament's negotiating team and the council presidency on 19 april 2016. the council adopted its position at first reading on 17 october 2016, in accordance with the agreement. in its report, the committee on transport and tourism proposes that parliament agree with the council's position at first reading and thereby declare that the act will be adopted in accordance with the council's position. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the second reading of the fourth railway package on the market pillar and its governance directive. the main objective of the legislative proposal is to increase the competitiveness of domestic rail passenger transport markets and to improve the quantity and quality of passenger transport services by opening up the domestic rail passenger transport services market. rail freight and international passenger services were opened to competition in 2007 and 2010 respectively, in order to increase the efficiency of public funding of passenger services. the commission also considered that the measure was necessary to ensure that the infrastructure was not used for the purpose of the public service obligations. the current proposal aimed to strengthen coordination between infrastructure managers and railway companies and to consolidate cross-border cooperation between infrastructure managers. the changes will increase competition, ensure financial transparency and fair financing conditions. increased competition is expected to increase the attractiveness of railways, which will be more responsive to consumer needs, and will also increase the need for trained railway workers and operators of service facilities.
in writing. ‒ one of the objectives of the proposal is to open up the market for domestic rail passenger services in order to increase the competitive pressure on domestic rail markets and to increase the volume and improve the quality of passenger services. the rail freight and international passenger services were opened to competition in 2007 and 2010 respectively with the adoption of the previous railway legislative packages. the proposal should be read in conjunction with the proposed amendments to regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 and, in this context, aims to increase the efficiency of public funding of passenger transport services. i was very much in favour of the s&d position.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the functioning of ports and helps them adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and operations and the establishment of a framework to attract port investment. in this regulation, the commission set itself the objective of counterbalancing the weak competition and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. the clear framework of state aid rules is an important requirement for fair competition between ports on a level playing field. the proposal is in line with other important eu policies and objectives, such as the white paper on transport, the european network financing facility and the blue zone initiative. this regulation will apply to all maritime ports identified in the ten-t guidelines and will, in the commission's view, not impose additional burdens on ports that are already functioning well and will create the conditions for other ports to meet the structural challenges they face. in view of this, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the functioning of ports and helps them adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and operations and the establishment of a framework to attract port investment. in this regulation, the commission set itself the objective of counterbalancing the weak competition and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. the clear framework of state aid rules is an important requirement for fair competition between ports on a level playing field. the proposal is in line with other important eu policies and objectives, such as the white paper on transport, the european network financing facility and the blue zone initiative. this regulation will apply to all maritime ports identified in the ten-t guidelines and will, in the commission's view, not impose additional burdens on ports that are already functioning well and will create the conditions for other ports to meet the structural challenges they face. in view of this, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the functioning of ports and helps them adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and operations and the establishment of a framework to attract port investment. in this regulation, the commission set itself the objective of counterbalancing the weak competition and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. the clear framework of state aid rules is an important requirement for fair competition between ports on a level playing field. the proposal is in line with other important eu policies and objectives, such as the white paper on transport, the european network financing facility and the blue zone initiative. this regulation will apply to all maritime ports identified in the ten-t guidelines and will, in the commission's view, not impose additional burdens on ports that are already functioning well and will create the conditions for other ports to meet the structural challenges they face. in view of this, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the functioning of ports and helps them adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and operations and the establishment of a framework to attract port investment. in this regulation, the commission set itself the objective of counterbalancing the weak competition and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. the clear framework of state aid rules is an important requirement for fair competition between ports on a level playing field. the proposal is in line with other important eu policies and objectives, such as the white paper on transport, the european network financing facility and the blue zone initiative. this regulation will apply to all maritime ports identified in the ten-t guidelines and will, in the commission's view, not impose additional burdens on ports that are already functioning well and will create the conditions for other ports to meet the structural challenges they face. in view of this, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the functioning of ports and helps them adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and operations and the establishment of a framework to attract port investment. in this regulation, the commission set itself the objective of counterbalancing the weak competition and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. the clear framework of state aid rules is an important requirement for fair competition between ports on a level playing field. the proposal is in line with other important eu policies and objectives, such as the white paper on transport, the european network financing facility and the blue zone initiative. this regulation will apply to all maritime ports identified in the ten-t guidelines and will, in the commission's view, not impose additional burdens on ports that are already functioning well and will create the conditions for other ports to meet the structural challenges they face. in view of this, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council the adoption of a regulation establishing a framework for access to the market for port services and financial transparency in ports. the committee on transport and tourism has proposed that parliament adopt the proposal at first reading with 136 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to the market for port services and the establishment of a framework for financial transparency in ports. european ports make a major contribution to the long-term competitiveness of european industries. this is why i support - and i agree with the commission's proposal - the creation of a more efficient, more interconnected and more sustainable ten-t. this is indeed essential to develop a framework that improves the functioning of ports and helps them adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the fact that the material has been given an important role in ensuring fair competition between ports, one of the central elements of which is a clear framework of state aid rules, is to be welcomed. among the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, i particularly agree with the amendments on the social provisions governing the port labour law system, which advocate the enforcement of workers' rights, such as better training and safety conditions.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the functioning of ports and helps them adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. i supported him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14 december, i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors of estonia. the estonian candidate was heard by parliament's committee on budgetary control after having examined the candidate's replies to a written questionnaire. at the parliamentary hearing, juhan parts demonstrated adequate preparation and gave satisfactory answers to the questions put to him, and meps approved the decision of the committee responsible in a plenary vote and supported the candidate.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14 december, i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors of estonia. the estonian candidate was heard by parliament's committee on budgetary control after having examined the candidate's replies to a written questionnaire. at the parliamentary hearing, juhan parts demonstrated adequate preparation and gave satisfactory answers to the questions put to him, and meps approved the decision of the committee responsible in a plenary vote and supported the candidate.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14 december, i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors of estonia. the estonian candidate was heard by parliament's committee on budgetary control after having examined the candidate's replies to a written questionnaire. at the parliamentary hearing, juhan parts demonstrated adequate preparation and gave satisfactory answers to the questions put to him, and meps approved the decision of the committee responsible in a plenary vote and supported the candidate.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14 december, i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors of estonia. the estonian candidate was heard by parliament's committee on budgetary control after having examined the candidate's replies to a written questionnaire. at the parliamentary hearing, juhan parts demonstrated adequate preparation and gave satisfactory answers to the questions put to him, and meps approved the decision of the committee responsible in a plenary vote and supported the candidate.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14 december, i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors of estonia. the estonian candidate was heard by parliament's committee on budgetary control after having examined the candidate's replies to a written questionnaire. at the parliamentary hearing, juhan parts demonstrated adequate preparation and gave satisfactory answers to the questions put to him, and meps approved the decision of the committee responsible in a plenary vote and supported the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the council intends to appoint juhan parts of estonia as a member of the court of auditors, but is obliged to consult parliament on the appointment. the parliament's committee on budgetary control has assessed the merits of the proposed candidate and has heard the candidate at its meeting on 5 december 2016. on this basis, it recommends that parliament give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14 december, i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors of estonia. the estonian candidate was heard by parliament's committee on budgetary control after having examined the candidate's replies to a written questionnaire. at the parliamentary hearing, juhan parts demonstrated adequate preparation and gave satisfactory answers to the questions put to him, and meps approved the decision of the committee responsible in a plenary vote and supported the candidate.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 5 december 2016, the committee on budgetary control heard the council's candidate for member of the court of auditors and gave a favourable opinion on the proposal to appoint juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors. i voted for him, knowing his resume and statements.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community expired in 2012. the member states then decided to replace the contract by a research fund to support innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the fund contributes around €50 billion a year to innovation, benefiting both industrial companies, small businesses and research institutions. the priorities for support have not changed significantly since the establishment of the fund, but the way the scheme has operated in practice has shown that further fine-tuning is needed. the subsequently introduced horizon 2020 research and development programme also provides funding for those involved in innovation. the coordination of the two programmes is essential for their effective operation. accordingly, the two main objectives of the present proposal are to harmonise the operation of the research fund for coal and steel and horizon 2020 in terms of financing, control and management processes. both the coal and steel industries in hungary have a long tradition. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. it is important that the knowledge accumulated in the industries is not lost and is able to support the country's economy and competitiveness up to date, adapting to the changed economic and technological environment.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community expired in 2012. the member states then decided to replace the contract by a research fund to support innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the fund contributes around €50 billion a year to innovation, benefiting both industrial companies, small businesses and research institutions. the priorities for support have not changed significantly since the establishment of the fund, but the way the scheme has operated in practice has shown that further fine-tuning is needed. the subsequently introduced horizon 2020 research and development programme also provides funding for those involved in innovation. the coordination of the two programmes is essential for their effective operation. accordingly, the two main objectives of the present proposal are to harmonise the operation of the research fund for coal and steel and horizon 2020 in terms of financing, control and management processes. the coal and steel industries in hungary have a long tradition. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. it is important that the knowledge accumulated in the industries is not lost and is able to support the country's economy and competitiveness up to date, adapting to the changed economic and technological environment.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community expired in 2012. the member states then decided to replace the contract by a research fund to support innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the fund contributes around €50 billion a year to innovation, benefiting both industrial companies, small businesses and research institutions. the priorities for support have not changed significantly since the establishment of the fund, but the way the scheme has operated in practice has shown that further fine-tuning is needed. the subsequently introduced horizon 2020 research and development programme also provides funding for those involved in innovation. the coordination of the two programmes is essential for their effective operation. accordingly, the two main objectives of the present proposal are to harmonise the operation of the research fund for coal and steel and horizon 2020 in terms of financing, control and management processes. both the coal and steel industries in hungary have a long tradition. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. it is important that the knowledge accumulated in the industries is not lost and is able to support the country's economy and competitiveness up to date, adapting to the changed economic and technological environment.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community expired in 2012. the member states then decided to replace the contract by a research fund to support innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the fund contributes around €50 billion a year to innovation, benefiting both industrial companies, small businesses and research institutions. the priorities for support have not changed significantly since the establishment of the fund, but the way the scheme has operated in practice has shown that further fine-tuning is needed. the subsequently introduced horizon 2020 research and development programme also provides funding for those involved in innovation. the coordination of the two programmes is essential for their effective operation. accordingly, the two main objectives of the present proposal are to harmonise the operation of the research fund for coal and steel and horizon 2020 in terms of financing, control and management processes. the coal and steel industries in hungary have a long tradition. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. it is important that the knowledge accumulated in the industries is not lost and is able to support the country's economy and competitiveness up to date, adapting to the changed economic and technological environment.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community expired in 2012. the member states then decided to replace the contract by a research fund to support innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the fund contributes around €50 billion a year to innovation, benefiting both industrial companies, small businesses and research institutions. the priorities for support have not changed significantly since the establishment of the fund, but the way the scheme has operated in practice has shown that further fine-tuning is needed. the subsequently introduced horizon 2020 research and development programme also provides funding for those involved in innovation. the coordination of the two programmes is essential for their effective operation. accordingly, the two main objectives of the present proposal are to harmonise the operation of the research fund for coal and steel and horizon 2020 in terms of financing, control and management processes. the coal and steel industries in hungary have a long tradition. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. it is important that the knowledge accumulated in the industries is not lost and is able to support the country's economy and competitiveness up to date, adapting to the changed economic and technological environment.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community expired in 2012. the member states then decided to replace the contract by a research fund to support innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the fund contributes around €50 billion a year to innovation, benefiting both industrial companies, small businesses and research institutions. the priorities for support have not changed significantly since the establishment of the fund, but the way the scheme has operated in practice has shown that further fine-tuning is needed. the subsequently introduced horizon 2020 research and development programme also provides funding for those involved in innovation. the coordination of the two programmes is essential for their effective operation. accordingly, the two main objectives of the present proposal are to harmonise the operation of the research fund for coal and steel and horizon 2020 in terms of financing, control and management processes. both the coal and steel industries in hungary have a long tradition. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. it is important that the knowledge accumulated in the industries is not lost and is able to support the country's economy and competitiveness up to date, adapting to the changed economic and technological environment.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community expired in 2012. the member states then decided to replace the contract by a research fund to support innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the fund contributes around €50 billion a year to innovation, benefiting both industrial companies, small businesses and research institutions. the priorities for support have not changed significantly since the establishment of the fund, but the way the scheme has operated in practice has shown that further fine-tuning is needed. the subsequently introduced horizon 2020 research and development programme also provides funding for those involved in innovation. the coordination of the two programmes is essential for their effective operation. accordingly, the two main objectives of the present proposal are to harmonise the operation of the research fund for coal and steel and horizon 2020 in terms of financing, control and management processes. both the coal and steel industries in hungary have a long tradition. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. it is important that the knowledge accumulated in the industries is not lost and is able to support the country's economy and competitiveness up to date, adapting to the changed economic and technological environment.
in writing. the coal and steel research programme, which has been established and developed over several decades, is an area that has been well established at eu level since ancient times. the report contains amendments to the council decision which are largely acceptable because they are justified from the point of view of environmental protection, labour protection or otherwise. i would point out that it is time to find the right balance in environmental protection, with a much greater emphasis on the conservation and restoration of tropical and temperate rain forests, for example, than on the juggling of the quota trade. we must not forget that many eu jobs have already fallen victim to the unholy activities of overseas-funded ngos.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the council the adoption of a decision adopting the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and amending decision 2008/376/ec on multiannual technical guidelines for this programme. before adopting a decision, the council shall consult parliament. the committee on industry, research and energy has proposed that parliament approve the commission's proposal with 10 amendments. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community expired in 2012. the member states then decided to replace the contract by a research fund to support innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the fund contributes around €50 billion a year to innovation, benefiting both industrial companies, small businesses and research institutions. the priorities for support have not changed significantly since the establishment of the fund, but the way the scheme has operated in practice has shown that further fine-tuning is needed. the subsequently introduced horizon 2020 research and development programme also provides funding for those involved in innovation. the coordination of the two programmes is essential for their effective operation. accordingly, the two main objectives of the present proposal are to harmonise the operation of the research fund for coal and steel and horizon 2020 in terms of financing, control and management processes. both the coal and steel industries in hungary have a long tradition. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. it is important that the knowledge accumulated in the industries is not lost and is able to support the country's economy and competitiveness up to date, adapting to the changed economic and technological environment.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was signed in 1951; since then, the eu has been supporting coal and steel research for more than 50 years. this was done by transferring the assets of the esf (and the interest accruing thereon) to a research fund for coal and steel (rfcs) after the expiry of the contract in 2002. the programme shall be financed from the revenue generated by the remaining assets of the former esdc. the report describes that the rfcs complements horizon 2020 and provides around eur 50 million per year in support of r&d&i activities for the steel (72,8%) and coal (27,2%) industries. it brings together eu industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities and helps them to develop their expertise and innovate within the sector. the report responds to a commission proposal to amend this legal basis in order to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules, in particular by bringing it proportionately closer to the rules of the general research framework programme 'horizon 2020'. the second objective is to ensure that the commission, through the amendments, manages the programme with due transparency and in accordance with the commission's rules on expert groups. in view of the late publication of the commission proposal and the ep's position in the process of being formulated, i voted in favour of the report and its amendments.
in writing. ‒ the eu has been supporting coal and steel research for more than 50 years. it all started with the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc), signed in 1951. i supported the current proposal.
in writing. ‒ in its report on the state of human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter, the european parliament expresses its grave concern that the protection of human rights is under serious threat worldwide. the document underlines the union's long-standing commitment to promoting human rights, including freedom of religion, freedom of expression and minority rights. however, i regret to note that the report treats the issue of migration affecting europe as a human rights issue, ignoring other important aspects of the issue, such as the protection of the union's external borders or the need to ensure the legality of border crossings. although it is worth noting that the report makes a distinction between migrants and refugees, i nevertheless abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ in its report on the state of human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter, the european parliament expresses its grave concern that the protection of human rights is under serious threat worldwide. the document underlines the union's long-standing commitment to promoting human rights, including freedom of religion, freedom of expression and minority rights. however, i regret to note that the report treats the issue of migration affecting europe as a human rights issue, ignoring other important aspects of the issue, such as the protection of the union's external borders or the need to ensure the legality of border crossings. it is common knowledge that hungary's position on migration differs from the eu's official policy on several points. although it is worth noting that the report makes a distinction between migrants and refugees, in line with the position of the european people's party, i nevertheless abstained from voting along with my fidesz colleagues.
in writing. ‒ our december plenary sessions always focus on the situation of human rights around the world. sadly, the picture is getting worse, with not just individuals but entire groups of people being endangered every day. the very existence of certain religious minorities, including christians in the middle east, is in danger. masses of people are being forced to flee their homes to save their lives. these are the real refugees, and the eu must give them all the help it can to protect their lives and facilitate their return to their homeland. but this requires more than just talk, it requires action: it is up to our financial support and global solidarity to make it possible for refugees to return to their homes. their homes, schools, churches are at stake. these christian communities are in need of humanitarian attention and assistance more than ever. the final text of the report also pays particular attention to the issue of national minorities. it is essential to ensure equality in practice between national minorities and the majority nation. this is true in all areas of life - social, economic, political and cultural. the protection of national and linguistic minorities should be given special attention during the accession process, as experience has shown that minority rights can be adequately guaranteed during the accession process.
in writing. ‒ in its report on the state of human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter, the european parliament expresses its grave concern that the protection of human rights is under serious threat worldwide. the document underlines the union's long-standing commitment to promoting human rights, including freedom of religion, freedom of expression and minority rights. however, i regret to note that the report treats the issue of migration affecting europe as a human rights issue, ignoring other important aspects of the issue, such as the protection of the union's external borders or the need to ensure the legality of border crossings. it is common knowledge that hungary's position on migration differs from the eu's official policy on several points. although it is worth noting that the report makes a distinction between migrants and refugees, in line with the position of the european people's party, i nevertheless abstained from voting along with my fidesz colleagues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it includes a whole chapter on the situation of people with disabilities. my proposal included the need to examine more closely the effectiveness of projects concerning disabled people and to involve local ngos representing disabled people in the implementation of such projects, in accordance with the principle 'nothing about us, without us'. i believe that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities must be respected and that more projects are needed around the world to support the social integration of people with disabilities in their own communities. we need to do more than talk, we need to do more than export democracy, we need to empower local communities. local organisations need to be involved because they know exactly what is needed locally and they can help ensure that the support actually reaches the people it is intended to reach.
in writing. ‒ on 20 june 2016, the council adopted the document entitled 'the eu annual report on the situation of human rights and democracy in the world for 2015'. the committee on foreign affairs, in its motion for a resolution, proposes to deliver an opinion on this report. the proposal is undoubtedly thorough and detailed, but in my view it lacks the necessary balance. that's why i abstained in the final vote on its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the annual report, mainly because it reflects the european union's continued commitment to its ambition to remain a flag-bearer and a valid example of the promotion of human rights and democracy in the world. in particular, i agree with the statement that, in the face of the latest international challenges, in particular the refugee crisis, this requires more than ever the coherence and credibility of the union's external and internal policies, which have recently been undermined from within by the inhuman, degrading and discriminatory treatment of refugees by the governments of some eu member states. the report also confronts us with dramatic facts in this respect, but avoids naming specific member states, but at the same time, as a hungarian politician and democrat, i had to bear in mind that the systematic violation of the rights of refugees is unfortunately the most obvious european example of the orbán government today. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the fight against terrorism and to be able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ in its report on the state of human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter, the european parliament expresses its grave concern that the protection of human rights is under serious threat worldwide. the document underlines the union's long-standing commitment to promoting human rights, including freedom of religion, freedom of expression and minority rights. however, i regret to note that the report treats the issue of migration affecting europe as a human rights issue, ignoring other important aspects of the issue, such as the protection of the union's external borders or the need to ensure the legality of border crossings. it is common knowledge that hungary's position on migration differs from the eu's official policy on several points. although it is worth noting that the report makes a distinction between migrants and refugees, in line with the position of the european people's party, i nevertheless abstained from voting along with my fidesz colleagues.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the greatest achievements in european history and the transformative power of the eu enables its citizens and its neighbouring countries, many of which have become eu member states, to live in peace, stability and prosperity.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the european union's common foreign and security policy underlines that the union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges. it recalls the eu's commitment to contribute to the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and the international order, through its foreign and security policy. although i agree with a large part of the report, it contains several statements which ultimately led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the european union's common foreign and security policy underlines that the union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges. it recalls the eu's commitment to contribute to the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and the international order, through its foreign and security policy. although the report also calls for a review of the eu-russia relations strategy, i regret to state that i abstained from the vote, as the position of the hungarian government on this issue differs from the official eu policy on several points. since the sanctions against russia have caused enormous economic damage to hungary and several other member states, and since in my view they do not achieve their objective in the long term, i could not support the points that would have led to the introduction of more severe sanctions.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the european union's common foreign and security policy underlines that the union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges. it recalls the eu's commitment to contribute to the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and the international order, through its foreign and security policy. although the report also calls for a review of the eu-russia relations strategy, i regret to state that i abstained from the vote, as the position of the hungarian government on this issue differs from the official eu policy on several points. since the sanctions against russia have caused enormous economic damage to hungary and several other member states, and since in my view they do not achieve their objective in the long term, i could not support the points that would have led to the introduction of more severe sanctions.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the european union's common foreign and security policy underlines that the union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges. it recalls the eu's commitment to contribute to the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and the international order, through its foreign and security policy. although the report also calls for a review of the eu-russia relations strategy, i regret to state that i abstained from the vote, as the position of the hungarian government on this issue differs from the official eu policy on several points. since the sanctions against russia have caused enormous economic damage to hungary and several other member states, and since in my view they do not achieve their objective in the long term, i could not support the points that would have led to the introduction of more severe sanctions.
in writing. the packaging is not bad, and in some places it is even attractive enough to sell. but the report says that the eu has brought peace, stability and prosperity to its citizens and to its neighbours, but for some reason it has a different view of this than the citizens of syria, libya, egypt and all the countries that have been thrown into chaos by colorful revolutions and civil war. the rapporteur also modestly ignores the fact that the eu is one of the world's largest arms exporters. the report unacceptably encourages further militarisation of the eu and closer eu/nato cooperation, and supports the merging of internal and external security at the expense of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the council presented to the european parliament its annual report on the common foreign and security policy. the committee on foreign affairs proposes that parliament adopt a resolution on this report. the proposal calls for the eu to be a success story, bringing peace, stability and prosperity to its citizens and neighbouring countries. the draft stresses the importance of the eu's responsibility for its own security, calls for closer eu-nato cooperation, enhancement of the eu's defence capabilities, strengthening of the common security and defence policy, establishment of permanent structured cooperation. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the comprehensive and detailed report, which i hope will contribute to the political instruments of the european parliament to help the eu finally achieve a breakthrough in the implementation of a genuine, global, proactive and effective common foreign and security policy. this summary also reflects the fact that the increasingly serious and immediate nature of external challenges now requires, and indeed can significantly promote, an improvement in the union's response capacity, a strengthening of the defence union and the role of the common foreign and security service. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the union's institutions and bodies are able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the union's institutions and bodies are able to fulfil their mandate. the report only hints at this, but experience shows that not all member states' governments can be counted on today to strengthen the eu's independent foreign policy profile. as a hungarian opposition representative, i am particularly concerned that today it is above all the orbán government that is ready to serve moscow's increasingly aggressive expansionist ambitions, based on political calculation or corruption, in which it is trying to undermine the eu's achievements and future by using the toolbox of hybrid warfare, internal political power relations, elections and propaganda in general aimed at influencing public opinion, which we must pay more attention to in the future within the framework of the csdp.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the european union's common foreign and security policy underlines that the union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges. it recalls the eu's commitment to contribute to the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and the international order, through its foreign and security policy. although the report also calls for a review of the eu-russia relations strategy, i regret to state that i abstained from the vote, as the position of the hungarian government on this issue differs from the official eu policy on several points. since the sanctions against russia have caused enormous economic damage to hungary and several other member states, and since in my view they do not achieve their objective in the long term, i could not support the points that would have led to the introduction of more severe sanctions.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the greatest achievements in european history and the transformative power of the eu enables its citizens and its neighbouring countries, many of which have become eu member states, to live in peace, stability and prosperity. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the possibilities for reducing price volatility in agricultural markets. it gives a good historical overview of the cap's changing objectives from the early 1990s onwards, and its proposals are framed in a way that is almost contextual. the report can also be seen as a necessary and timely precursor to the cap review and adjustment paths for the financial cycle 2014-2020 in at least the three areas it undertakes. these areas are: 1) the need to establish and strengthen producer organisations; 2) the need to strengthen and promote the second pillar risk management tools among farmers; 3) the need to improve market transparency by setting up price monitoring centres. the work is particularly valuable for the depth of detail with which it attempts to uncover the causes of price fluctuations that are unfavourable to both farmers and consumers. in doing so, it appropriately criticises the adverse effects of free trade rules, the consequences of exposure to weather, rising input prices, and falling profitability, which result in millions of farms disappearing from the eu economy in a single cycle. i supported the report because of its timeliness and its objective findings.
in writing. a comprehensive, fairly detailed, supportive report that really seeks to explore the causes of agricultural price fluctuations. it rightly criticises the negative effects of free trade regulation, which in general create a disadvantageous situation for both producers and consumers. it is incompatible with the legitimate demand for sustainable development and the commitment to good quality food that hundreds of thousands of small farms fail every year in the eu because of regulatory failures and the rise of multinational companies.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution of the committee on agriculture and rural development states that the main risk to european farmers is the volatility of agricultural prices, and that the cap's risk management tools are not able to mitigate this risk. the draft envisages that the european union will have to find a solution to this situation, through the development of instruments within the cap that will make it possible to combat price fluctuations effectively. i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ we need concrete tools to counter price volatility in agricultural markets, which is most pronounced among producers and often does not reach the rest of the food chain. the exception is the consumer sector, which is often the victim of unfair commercial practices. i agree that the instability and imperfection of agricultural markets, the globalised nature and complexity of agricultural markets, the weather-related volatility of supply, the increased health risks and the uncertain balance of food supply will make farmers even more vulnerable to price fluctuations. the instruments identified in the report such as support for producers and their organisations, a better and more transparent contracting system and a better agricultural market and price monitoring system will reduce price fluctuations if they reach genuine producers or their organisations. these instruments, these subsidies, are not wasted resources, because one of the main objectives of the cap is to create food security. another important fact is that the sector is increasingly exposed to the adverse effects of climate change, in addition to competition, and therefore needs to be developed. we will therefore develop a deeper and more coherent policy with targeted instruments at eu and member state level to ensure multifunctional and sustainable agricultural production and fair prices. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ agricultural activity is dependent on biological processes. it is therefore highly dependent on climatic conditions and diseases of plants and animals. farmers have no control over natural factors. the performance of agricultural holdings is therefore much more uncertain than that of undertakings in other sectors of the economy. i supported him with my vote.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on labour market reforms and employment relations in greece (2016/3032 ((rsp)).
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the commission statement on the situation of the rule of law and democracy in poland (2016/3030 ((rsp)).
my fellow members, i have several cards before me, there are some requests for a greeting card, and there is an order of business, as the member indicates, an order of business. mr. weidenholzer, please indicate to me which procedural item another request for a greeting card has been received which procedural item you wish to link.
(the person sitting behind mr. legutko stands up and leaves the room) i see the answer has been received by the member, as the person you requested has left the chamber. obviously, he's not a congressman, and i don't know how he got in this room. thank you very much for your comment, representative. there's nothing i need to decide right now. anyway, that was an important observation, which i thank you for. i have three questions to put to you, colleagues, and i would like to ask mr legutko to answer them all at once. do you accept the blue cards? every blue card. i'll take that. the first question with a question mark was from mrs post.
i'm not going to let you do this. maybe the translation was wrong, maybe he wasn't paying attention, but mr. legutko has a perfect opportunity to answer all the questions, one by one. first you answered madame post's question, now you have answered mr zwiefka's question, and there are two more. two questions, two blue cards, one from mrs björk and one from mr hadjigeorgiu. that's it, and in a row, one by one, you'll answer. 30 seconds question, 30 seconds answer, that's the order. there you are, representative björk.
mr. president, members of the house of representatives, i am a hungarian representative, and in our history, poland and hungary have gone hand in hand, followed each other. first in poland, then in hungary, then in hungary, then in poland. the hungarian and polish people are on good terms. however, i have to experience that everything we have seen or are seeing in poland, unfortunately, happened in hungary much earlier. the fact that the government, the hungarian government, has been pushing for a year with giant posters, literally pushing against refugees, and in general, if i limit myself to the subject of the istanbul convention, i have to say that hungary also seems to be being excluded from the istanbul convention. my fellow members of parliament! i would also like to point out the responsibility of those, especially the people's party, who have tolerated for months what now seems to be sweeping across the continent.
mr president the islamic state attack in cairo targeted egyptian christians, but egyptians, copts and muslims who seek to live together in peace were attacked together. we extend our condolences to the victims of the terrorist attack at the memorial, young and old, and to their grieving families. the act is symbolic, the massacre of members of the christian community during the preparation of the holiday. their goal, mr. president, was nothing less than to spread a culture of fear and death throughout the middle east and the world. what's the assignment? the security of christians and other religious minorities in the middle east must be guaranteed by the international community. europe must help to create security for christian and other religious minorities - i would like to stress this - in their homeland. europe must do everything possible to implement the measures adopted to combat jihadism, our measures. i believe that this is in the common interest of europe and egypt and the middle east.
the first item is the debate on the report of the committee on petitions on its activities in 2015 by ms vallina, on behalf of the committee on petitions (2016/2146 (ini)) (a8-0366/2016)
thank you very much, congressman. you can talk without a microphone, perfect. there's no way that's going to happen. congressman, please don't shout in this room. there's no such thing. the member is attending the committee meeting, the member has indicated that this has not happened, [shouting] they are discussing it amongst themselves. well, my fellow mps, this is a well-written report with a bad ending. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today, thursday, december 15, 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the committee on petitions pays particular attention to people with disabilities. for example, i am pleased that the public hearing on 'protecting the rights of persons with disabilities through the eyes of the petitions received' held by the committee on petitions on 15 october 2015 was an unhindered one. however, i believe that there are still too few petitions from citizens with disabilities. the reason for this, in my view, is that the complaint mechanism is not yet sufficiently known to those concerned. i would like to ask that the method of complaint be communicated in an accessible way and widely to people with disabilities. i am convinced that the european parliament must set an example in this respect too!
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the case of larung gar tibetan buddhist academy and ilham tohti (2016/3026 ((rsp)).
author. madam president, on this very day, 15 december 1989, the protest that led to the outbreak of the romanian revolution and the fall of the communist dictatorship, by the unity of romanians and national minorities, began in front of the hungarian reformed church in timisoara. it is interesting that dictator ceaușescu, following his visit there, has adopted the chinese model in romania, when he tried to break the transylvanian hungarians and szeklerland with his anti-minority homogenization policy in the same way as the chinese communist regime tried to break the tibetans. it's been almost three decades. the chinese attempted to demolish and destroy the larung gar tibetan buddhist center is reminiscent of the romanian nationalist communist dictator's notorious village demolition plan. the european union and its member states are determined to continue to support the democratic process and to ensure that the democratic process is carried out in a democratic way. i would like to raise my voice on this occasion in particular for the release of ilham tohti, the uyghur opposition fighter nominated for the sakharov prize.
of course i should have protected you. of course, i should have stopped you now, because this is not the subject on which you had my good faith word in the 'catch the eye' procedure and abused my word, but you as a representative have the right to speak about what you want in the 'catch the eye' procedure, of course. and now my list includes congressman turmes. did you sign up to speak, or did we just misread the signal? yeah, that's all right.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the situation of the rohingya minority in myanmar (2016/3027 ((rsp))
in writing. ‒ at today's plenary session in strasbourg, meps voted in favour of a report on visa liberalisation and simplification of the suspension mechanism for visa exemptions. the report says that the suspension mechanism will be simplified and speeded up, while progress can also be made with regard to visa-free travel for ukraine and georgia. it is important that the granting of visa-free travel to ukraine and georgia strengthens cultural and economic cooperation with the neighbouring states of the european union. the european commission already concluded last december that ukraine had fulfilled the criteria of the visa liberalisation action plan (vlap), but the introduction of visa-free travel was still pending. ukraine started work in 2008 to meet the conditions for visa-free travel and has done so, and therefore has a legitimate desire for the eu to lift visa restrictions for its citizens as soon as possible and allow them to enter the eu in a dignified manner, which is also seen as a recognition of its reform efforts.
in writing. the usual eu operating pattern is reflected in this proposal and in the process leading to it. so ignore every timely signal, every ominous sign, and do nothing. if the problem develops, try to make it look like a joke through the press. if the public doesn't buy that, then you'll have time to pass some kind of legislation. then sit back and be content, because who would dare vote against anything that solves even a fraction of the problem?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the approval of the regulation establishing the agreement between the council and the european parliament on the adjustment of the list of countries subject to visa requirements for entry into the eu, with a view to making it faster and more flexible than at present, with a view to increasing the number of travellers and the rate of applications rejected, and with a view to exceptional circumstances, and to temporarily suspending the status of certain countries. however, i am confident that the proposal will ensure that human rights and the right to respect for private life, the right to a fair and transparent trial, data protection in accordance with eu rules and the human dimension will continue to be given equal weight in the future in the procedure under the amended rules. i consider the new rules to be an important concrete achievement, in that they will soon allow visa-free entry for citizens of georgia, one of the european union's important eastern neighbourhood partners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion to raise an objection to the draft commission implementing directive amending the council directive on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community. the objection is that the draft commission implementing directive jeopardises the rules on the introduction into the union of fruit susceptible to certain pests, in particular black spot disease and xanthomonas disease of citrus fruits. moreover, it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 which aims to identify the plant health risks posed by pathogens, animal or parasitic plant species, strains and biotypes harmful to plants or plant products and provides for measures to reduce those risks to acceptable levels. the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa in italy and the spread of invasive species in europe demonstrate the need to ensure the pest-free status of all imported plants or plant products. one infected plant can destroy an entire industry, an indigenous ecosystem, or the economy of a region.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to help those affected by the use of thalidomide, an anti-nausea drug that was introduced in the 1950s. the drug company that made the drug covered up the side effects on pregnant women, resulting in thousands of births worldwide with physical and mental illnesses as a result of the drug's harmful side effects. unfortunately, in a criminal trial in the 1970's, the company was able to get the case settled without payment of damages. the victims, who are in their 50s and 60s, have reported worsening effects of their birth defects, which have induced increased healthcare costs, increasingly expensive therapeutic treatments. the eu commissioner responsible, recognising the problem, has made references to the need to address the settlement of the healthcare costs of these victims at eu level, but no substantive action has been taken so far. parliament therefore calls on the commission to take steps to represent the interests of victims at eu level and to provide them with resources for their healthcare, and to oblige the company to accept its own liability and pay a reasonable amount of compensation to the victims in the event of a retrial. on the basis of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which raises the issue of the elderly victims of the thalidomide scandal to eu level, as many of them could be put in a worse position than before without support. in my view, the decision rightly undermines the primary responsibility of the pharmaceutical company and the german government, but it also rightly calls on the governments of several other eu member states, and in particular the spanish authorities, to take the necessary measures to ensure that victims who have been excluded from the fund for this purpose also receive the aid. i hope that the swift action and greater flexibility that this decision has called for will enable the victims concerned to experience in concrete terms the value of european solidarity.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution draws the commission's attention to the fact that, despite the incentives provided for in the previous regulation, little substantial progress has been made in the research and development of paediatric medicinal products. since the entry into force of the regulation, a total of two specific paediatric cancer medicinal products have been genericised. unfortunately, pharmaceutical companies have used the incentives (typically financial resources) to develop cancer drugs that can be made primarily for children, but also allow therapeutic treatment of similar cancers in the adult population. so, once again, the profit-oriented approach has overridden the constructive and forward-looking intention of the legislator. the proposal therefore calls on the commission to draw up a report on the interim review of the practical functioning of the regulation and to develop new incentives to attract companies to develop medicines to promote the therapeutic treatment of serious diseases specifically designed for children. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i would like to draw the attention of the parliament to the fact that early paediatric trial plans and early scientific and regulatory dialogue and cooperation with the european medicines agency will allow companies to optimise global paediatric development and, in particular, to develop even more feasible paediatric trial plans. i voted for the motion to pass.
in writing. ‒ many children suffer from a rare childhood disease but do not have access to paediatric medicines. over-the-counter medication is often based on experience rather than targeted clinical research. in fact, the development of new paediatric medicines lacks the innovation and incentives needed in many areas. while there is no doubt that the paediatric regulation has had a positive impact on the development of certain paediatric medicines and has brought tangible benefits in many childhood diseases, there is a very high number of areas where insufficient progress has been made. with these in mind, i agree that we need to promote innovation in paediatric medicines to ensure that all children are treated with medicines that are proven to be effective and safe. the proposal urges the european commission to review the regulation of paediatric medicines, to make paediatric developments more than disease-based, to develop disease and drug ranking models and to develop incentives that facilitate research. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ in its present form, the ep committee on petitions is only a substitute for european citizens who are vulnerable to the arbitrary practices of member states and eu bodies against eu-declared values. in 2015, 483 petitions were declared admissible and there is still a lot of misunderstanding about the scope of the union's activities, as indicated by the high number of petitions declared inadmissible (33,8%). although the report notes that it regrets that petitioners still do not receive sufficient information on the reasons for the inadmissibility of petitions, it does not see any proposal for a substantive change in the rules. it is clear that the petition system needs to be radically transformed to ensure that this right granted to european citizens is not used arbitrarily, in a discriminatory way, according to the subject, as was the case with the professionally based petition of foreign currency borrowers. the report, while containing elements critical of the current practice, does not propose any radical change, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i would like to emphasise that petitions play an important role in the legislative process, as they identify gaps and shortcomings in the transposition of community legislation and serve as a useful and direct resource for other parliamentary committees in their legislative work in their respective spheres of competence. the committee on petitions welcomes the increased cooperation between it and the other parliamentary committees and the fact that petition-related matters are dealt with more frequently in plenary sessions. i believe that petitions should not be the sole responsibility of the committee on petitions, but should be the shared responsibility of all parliamentary committees. i think that more efforts should be made to share the information needed to properly assess petitions.
in writing. welcomes the report as at least regrettable that petitioners still do not receive sufficient information on the reasons for the inadmissibility of their petitions, but this is a welcome development as it does not contain any proposal for a substantive change in the rules. it is a matter of outrage to all people of good will that the committee, although it considered the petition acceptable, then arbitrarily rejected it on the basis of a completely erroneous, even cynical, reasoning. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the hungarian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. no wonder many people view the committee on petitions as a rogue organization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions of the ep for 2015. the number of petitions received by the committee in the year under review was significantly down, by 47% compared with the previous year, but the possibility of having recourse directly to the committee on petitions and, through its work, to the only directly elected eu institution, the european parliament, remains important for the transparency of the eu's workings, its closeness to citizens and the experience of eu citizenship. the report also provides a detailed breakdown of the data by member state and important additional findings. these show that a significant number of the submissions concern the areas of environmental protection and social rights, which is a remarkable fact both as a left-wing representative and as a member of the envi committee, and also for my own representative work. i also appreciated that the report highlights the legal and practical limitations on the work and powers of the committee on petitions and its examination, while at the same time making substantive suggestions on several points for overcoming them in the future.
in writing. ‒ the commission is obliged to share information on international air transport negotiations with the competent committee of the ep, the committee on transport and tourism, in order to reach a common agreement between the european parliament and the european commission. the resolution was drafted in the context of this process and is supported by the hungarian people's party delegation. the motion stresses, inter alia, that in order to allow members to decide at the end of the negotiations whether or not to give their consent, parliament must follow the process from the beginning. this is also in the interest of the other institutions, as it allows them to identify and address at an early stage any concerns which, by reason of their gravity, could call into question parliament's willingness to give its consent.
in writing. ‒ the commission is obliged to share information on international air transport negotiations with the competent committee of the ep, the committee on transport and tourism, in order to reach a common agreement between the european parliament and the european commission. the resolution was drafted in the context of this process and is supported by the hungarian people's party delegation. the motion stresses, inter alia, that in order to allow members to decide at the end of the negotiations whether or not to give their consent, parliament must follow the process from the beginning. this is also in the interest of the other institutions, as it allows them to identify and address at an early stage any concerns which, by reason of their gravity, could call into question parliament's willingness to give its consent.
in writing. ‒ the commission is obliged to share information on international air transport negotiations with the competent committee of the ep, the committee on transport and tourism, in order to reach a common agreement between the european parliament and the european commission. the resolution was drafted in the context of this process and is supported by the hungarian people's party delegation. the motion stresses, inter alia, that in order to allow members to decide at the end of the negotiations whether or not to give their consent, parliament must follow the process from the beginning. this is also in the interest of the other institutions, as it allows them to identify and address at an early stage any concerns which, by reason of their gravity, could call into question parliament's willingness to give its consent.
in writing. ‒ under a joint agreement between the european parliament and the european commission, the commission is obliged to share information on international air transport negotiations with the relevant committee of the ep, the committee on transport and tourism. the resolution was drafted in the context of this process and is supported by the hungarian people's party delegation. the motion stresses, inter alia, that in order to allow members to decide at the end of the negotiations whether or not to give their consent, parliament must follow the process from the beginning. this is also in the interest of the other institutions, as it allows them to identify and address at an early stage any concerns which, by reason of their gravity, could call into question parliament's willingness to give its consent.
in writing. ‒ the commission is obliged to share information on international air transport negotiations with the competent committee of the ep, the committee on transport and tourism, in order to reach a common agreement between the european parliament and the european commission. the resolution was drafted in the context of this process and is supported by the hungarian people's party delegation. the motion stresses, inter alia, that in order to allow members to decide at the end of the negotiations whether or not to give their consent, parliament must follow the process from the beginning. this is also in the interest of the other institutions, as it allows them to identify and address at an early stage any concerns which, by reason of their gravity, could call into question parliament's willingness to give its consent.
in writing. ‒ the commission is obliged to share information on international air transport negotiations with the competent committee of the ep, the committee on transport and tourism, in order to reach a common agreement between the european parliament and the european commission. the resolution was drafted in the context of this process and is supported by the hungarian people's party delegation. the motion stresses, inter alia, that in order to allow members to decide at the end of the negotiations whether or not to give their consent, parliament must follow the process from the beginning. this is also in the interest of the other institutions, as it allows them to identify and address at an early stage any concerns which, by reason of their gravity, could call into question parliament's willingness to give its consent.
in writing. ‒ i intended to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on international air transport agreements. in accordance with the european aviation strategy, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on aviation security agreements with japan and china and to open negotiations on aviation security agreements at union level with asean, turkey, qatar and the united arab emirates. i agree with the motion for a resolution that the european parliament should follow the process from the beginning. all the more so since at the end of the negotiations, you have to make a decision about whether or not to give your consent. it is true that it is also in the interest of the other institutions to identify and address at an early stage any concerns which might call into question parliament's willingness to give its consent. i also welcome the call for the commission to allow the members of the european parliament to have access, in parallel with the council, to all relevant documents, including negotiating directives and consolidated texts, on an equal footing.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is here. the s&d group also believes that it is essential that the european customs union, as one of the cornerstones of the union, should function properly and effectively, and in a way that serves the best interests of european businesses and citizens. it is hoped that the new customs code introduced from may 2016, with a full implementation deadline of december 2020, will indeed result in greater legal certainty, uniformity and simplified customs rules in practice. this would in particular benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, which are particularly disadvantaged by complex customs rules and procedures and thus have to bear the additional tax burden due to tax evasion and tax evasion by multinational companies. if these areas do not change for the benefit of smes, the european union's competitiveness will suffer. the other key group, besides smes, whose interests should be served by the new customs code is the european consumer. the new customs legislation should therefore better protect consumers from goods that are harmful to health and the environment and illegal. to ensure that the new rules really lead to a simpler, faster and safer customs union, we urge that during the transition period, problems arising are continuously monitored and the system is adjusted so that all member states comply with the requirements from 2021. in conclusion, mr president, i wish you and all european citizens a very happy christmas and a successful 2017.
